Year of 2024 was significant for Admicom in terms of
strategy. We built the foundation for our accelerated
growth by promoting the breadth of our product
portfolio, consistency between the different stages
of the construction value chain, and improving our
internal capabilities to support accelerated growth.
This was a determined continuation of our growth
strategy and strengthened our position as a provider
of software solutions that improve productivity in the
construction and real estate industries.
In the beginning of the year, we expanded our
product family by acquiring Trackinno Oy, a provider
of fleet management solutions. This acquisition
complemented our offering to
meet customer needs and opened
up new market opportunities.
At the end of the year, we took
a significant step towards
internationalization by acquiring
Estonian Bauhub, whose software
solutions complement our project
management portfolio and
open up new opportunities for
international growth.
The growth in Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) in 2024
was approximately 10%, which can be considered
a reasonable performance in a challenging market
situation. Growth was challenged especially by
the high customer churn due to bankruptcies and
invoicing based on the revenue of the customers of
Ultima ERP system, more specifically the decrease in
annual adjustment fees based on customers’ revenue,
and customer contract updates. Despite this, we
strengthened our customer base, and net customer
growth was at the highest level of the year in the final
quarter. Encouraging results were achieved in new
and cross sales, especially in the smaller customer
segment.
During the year, we invested significantly in product
development and improving the user experience.
In April, we launched a modern and customizable
front page for Ultima customers and introduced the
first AI-powered solutions to support productivity in
the construction industry. The debut of our AI vision
in the third quarter showed how we can combine
our different products and provide our customers
with a seamless user experience. These innovative
solutions strengthen our competitiveness and create
significant added value for our customers.
We also continued to build a strong company culture
by bringing our offering together under one Admicom
brand and clarifying our core values: we care, we
dare and we grow. The cultural work will continue in
2025 with the aim of making Admicom the leading
construction partner for our customers and the best
workplace in the field for our employees.
During the year, we took important steps in the field of
sustainability. We started our sustainability strategy
work, which will be reflected in both our own operations
and our customers’ offerings. We develop solutions
that support our customers in reducing their carbon
footprint and achieving their sustainability goals.
At the end of the year, there was a change of CEO when
Admicom’s Board of Directors appointed me as the
new CEO of the Group. My goal is to clarify our strategic
target towards the 2030 vision and our growth towards
the EUR 100 million ARR target. We will crystallize and
accelerate the execution of our strategy, enabling
accelerated growth and international expansion in
the coming years.
For us, 2024 was a year of rapid changes, learning and
strengthening the main pillars. In 2025, we believe that
our investments in product development, customer
experience, and sales and marketing will start to bear
fruit. I am very optimistic that Admicom will become
a leading international learning construction partner
for our customers.
I would like to thank our personnel, customers and
partners for their commitment and trust. Together
we are building a sustainable future and creating
conditions for growth also in the coming years.