A MOMENTOUS YEAR
The year 2024 was momentous for Administer Group. We achieved the best EBITDA in euros in the Group’s history, supported by our profitability programme and the revised strategy announced at the beginning of 2024. I consider this a significant achievement, given the weak economic development in Finland. The improved profitability was reflected in almost all of our businesses. We rapidly set out to advance our revised strategy announced at the beginning of 2024, which will help us find stronger synergies both in the customer interface and in internal organisation and operations. Unlike previous years, our focus was on profitability rather than growth. We focused more strongly on creating added value for customers, for example, by harmonising the model for customer relationship management throughout the Group. Only by focusing on solving problems and ensuring the success of our customers can we be more successful in the long run. The Group invests in customer experience as well as develops and standardises ways to measure it across all our business operations. We are building a group-level model for customer relationship management to pursue synergies and growth opportunities, laying the foundation for a good customer experience. At the core of our strategy is the development of experts and their expertise, which has a significant impact on both service quality and customer experience. In 2024, for example, the number of new KLT and PHT degrees* completed was at a good level. We also invest in leadership development, which I consider important in terms of employee satisfaction. In 2024, we carried out a leadership survey for the first time, which we then used to select joint development targets: the manageability of work, the development of our feedback culture, and work ability management. Responsible partner Responsible business is an important part of our strategic goals. During the year, we created a sustainability programme, including related targets and metrics, to prepare for the future requirements of CSRD reporting. Our responsibility can be summed up in three themes: we are a responsible partner, we train our experts and develop our leadership, and we ensure the quality of service. At the end of the year, we clarified our brand portfolio by merging Adner, which provides financial management outsourcing services, into the parent company Administer. In addition, I would like to highlight the acquisition of the majority of Kuntalaskenta’s shares and the stabilisation of its operations as a strategic choice and a major success. The transition to quarterly reporting at the beginning of 2024 provides our owners and other stakeholders with more up-to-date information. It has also better illustrated the seasonal fluctuations of our business. Our net sales decreased by 1.6%, which I cannot be completely satisfied with. The development of Finland’s economy has been weaker than anticipated. This has been reflected in our business operations, especially in staffing services, where the volume of demand in the industry has suffered a steep decline. Although financial and payroll services are quite stable in nature, economic activity, or the number of pay cheques and vouchers, is directly reflected in our operations since we ultimately depend on the economic activity of our customers. In a recession, the market competition will always tighten, and the strongest will perform best. We continued to develop our products and services successfully. We focused on AI features in developing our financial management software eFina, and its updated reporting features have received positive feedback from both customers and our personnel. Regarding EmCe software, we focused on increasing automation. Our customer base has reacted positively to us selling our services as larger entities. We also expanded staffing to include payroll experts, which our customers have regarded as an interesting addition to our payroll services. Administer – 40 years of financial management services Last year’s improvement in profitability was significant, but we are still aiming for better. In 2025, we will concentrate on profitability, continuous clarification of our focus, responsibility, and determined implementation of the strategy. Digitalisation is already under way in the industry, and this trend is certainly not going to slow down. AI has also become a part of everyday life, replacing an increasingly large portion of the previously manual work of our accountants, among other things. In addition, I believe the accounting business will continue to consolidate. The year 2025 is also an anniversary for our Group, as 40 years have passed since the establishment of the parent company Administer. Finally, I wish to sincerely thank all our stakeholders for their good cooperation. I would like to express my special thanks to our customers and our personnel – we would not be able to achieve our goals without you.