The demand for Aiforia’s AI-assisted image analysis solutions strengthened significantly during
the year. In the pathology sector, improving the efficiency of the workflow by utilizing AI is a key
development target as the population ages and sample volumes increase. Using our AI solutions
in diagnostics supports the efficiency and quality of our customers’ operations. This was reflected
in our order book, which we consider to be the most important key performance indicator, which
grew by 118 percent during the year. A strengthened order book will be reflected in the
development of our revenue as the systems are installed and integrated into our customers’
workflows.
We have invested in product development, which has led to good commercialization of our
products and strengthened our market position. At the same time, we have honed our
organization and strengthened sales and R&D. Our stable market position as a well-known
supplier is also reflected in the shift in the focus of new contracts from smaller deals to multi-year
partnerships with large hospital districts. This change has brought stability and predictability to
our business, which is positively reflected in our order book.
During the year, we received important references from Europe, both in large public tenders and
from the private healthcare sector. Examples of these include one of the world’s leading hospitals
located in Paris, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, choosing Aiforia’s AI solutions. In Spain,
the regional health management of Castile and León selected us as a solution provider for
AI-assisted diagnostics. In Italy, after our first successful digital pathology project, Aiforia was also
selected as a partner to digitize the anatomical pathology laboratories of 31 health authorities in
the Lombardy region in the Veneto area. These partnerships significantly strengthen our position
in the European market and demonstrate that our innovative AI solutions deliver value to our
customers. In a new market opening, Memorial Hospitals Group in Turkey has selected Aiforia as
its partner for AI-assisted clinical diagnostics in pathology.
A significant opening in the domestic market was our multi-year partnership with Finland's largest
healthcare laboratory company, Fimlab.
To accelerate our growth strategy, we signed several partnerships related to resale and product
collaboration, e.g., in the United States, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. The market for digital
pathology is growing rapidly in South Korea, and hospitals are increasingly interested in
introducing AI solutions to improve pathologists’ workflow. These partnerships that support the
resale of our products are significant steps in bringing our AI to new markets and meet the
growing needs of pathologists and medical professionals in these target countries.
We invested in the development of new AI models and user interfaces for both clinical
diagnostics and research use. With this development, our product range will expand during 2025.
We launched a completely new AI model developed in collaboration with the Mayo Clinic to
predict the risk of colorectal cancer recurrence. We also strengthened our product range by
introducing the Aiforia® Studies software module to the market, designed to support AI-assisted
image analytics in preclinical studies.
During the review period, we further developed the Aiforia® Create product, designed for training
AI models, by adding new functionalities and enabling the use of neural networks developed by
third parties, such as large Foundation Models. We also further improved the integration
possibilities of Aiforia’s platform with the systems used by customer laboratories.
The achievements of the past year bring us closer to Aiforia’s mission to transform pathology
image analysis with AI, enabling better care for each patient. At the beginning of the year, we
published short-term business targets for 2024–2025. This year, we will continue to work
determinedly towards achieving these goals.
The digital transformation of pathology is accelerating, and the demand for AI-assisted image
analysis solutions is growing rapidly. Aiforia is at the forefront of this exciting development, and
our skilled team and cutting-edge offering position us for continued success in these dynamic
markets. We rely on our ability to navigate a changing competitive environment and deliver
exceptional value to our customers. I am incredibly proud of what we have achieved together and
look forward to continuing this journey in 2025.