Aktia successfully fulfilled its purpose of creating wealth in 2024 amid a changing operating
environment. Our financial performance remained strong despite continued economic
uncertainty, geopolitical tensions and fluctuations in interest rates. We focused on our
customers’ evolving needs throughout the year, ensuring long-term value.
In 2024, the Finnish economy faced persistent challenges,
including a sluggish housing market and constrained economic
growth. However, the resilience of our strategic business model,
built on three strong pillars – Asset Management, Banking and
Life Insurance – ensured that we remained well-positioned for the
future. In Asset Management, our continuous commitment to
business development was reflected in increased customer
engagement and high interest in our investment solutions. Our
Banking business delivered solid performance, driven by strong
demand for both investment products and financing solutions
such as leasing and hire purchase. Meanwhile, our Life Insurance
business continued on a steady trajectory, with investment-linked
insurance assets reaching record levels.
One of the key themes of the year was customer experience. We
made substantial progress in improving service quality, and we
strengthened the relationships with our customers. The
independent EPSI Rating survey among Finnish private investors
confirmed that Aktia climbed the most in customer satisfaction,
with strong results in personal service and active customer
dialogue. At the same time, our internal surveys showed
increasing employee satisfaction, reinforcing the ever-important
connection between motivated employees and excellent
customer service.
Aktia actively engages with industry leaders in selected areas. For
example, we entered into a strategic partnership with Swedbank
in May, as a further step in a decades-long relationship of doing
business together. This collaboration forms a mutually beneficial
basis for both parties to reach their long-term goals in the Finnish
market with a clear intention to complement each other and serve
our customers even better.
Throughout the year, we maintained cost discipline while
simultaneously investing in critical areas such as customer
experience, IT infrastructure, digital transformation and the future
utilisation of AI. These strategic investments are essential to
securing Aktia’s long-term competitiveness and future growth.
As we look ahead, Aktia is entering a new strategy period
extending to 2029. We have refined our long-term financial
targets and we are preparing for the future with a clear ambition:
to be a leading wealth manager, empowered by a strong banking
heritage. In February 2025, we presented our updated strategic
priorities that builds on our strong foundations while embracing
new opportunities for sustainable and profitable growth. To
enable successful execution of this revised strategic plan, we
launched an ambitious acceleration programme aimed at driving
sustainable improvements in operating profit.
Aktia will celebrate its 200-year anniversary in 2026. By thinking
further and striving for growth we aim to generate lasting
prosperity well into the future. I warmly welcome all current and
future employees, customers, and investors to join us on this
journey.