New strategy for the new year
The development direction in line with the
renewed strategy, along with the combination
with PURO Finance, reversed the bank’s
performance trend in the second half of the
year. We estimate the positive development to
continue in the current fiscal year.
For Alisa Bank, 2024 was a year of renewal filled with many
changes. The combination with PURO Finance Ltd, completed
in May, proved transformative. With the combination, the
bank gained a new Board of Directors, Management Team
and a strategy published later in the financial year. In the
second half of the year, the focus of operations, in addition
to the implementation of the new strategy, was on the
technical and operational execution of the merger. At the
same time, we were able to improve fundraising, create a
foundation for more active risk-based pricing, and initiate
discussions with new Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) partners.
The weak state of the Finnish economy was reflected in
the demand for both consumer and business financing. In
particular, demand for our main product, invoice financing,
fell short of our August forecast, as B2B invoicing in our
target group declined in the final months of the year. In
addition to the challenging business environment, the end
of the year saw a higher-than-expected amount of external
expenses, and the expected credit loss from a single
bankruptcy estate was specified. The focus of this year is
on increasing sales and partnerships for products in line
with our new strategy and on efficiency measures aimed at
optimizing external expenses. The portfolio of consumer
credits, which was previously a focus area, maintains a
level of credit losses similar to the past financial year. A
clearer decrease in credit losses is expected to come only
in 2026, with the loan portfolio under the new strategy
being materially less risky than before.
Due to the first half of the year, profit before non-recurring
items and taxes was EUR -0.1 million, and profit before
taxes EUR -1.3 million. The earnings improvement in the
second half of the year was driven by both successful
implementation of fund-raising and the increase in the
risk-adjusted return on lending in line with the renewed
strategy. Volume development in lending and certain
external expenses correspondingly pushed the figures for
the latter part of the year below the guidance we issued in
connection with the half-year report. Business development
The company’s operating income increased by 2.0 percent
to EUR 17.0 million (16.7) during the financial year, driven by
a corresponding change in net interest income. The same
trend in credit losses resulted in a corresponding 2.0 percent
increase in the risk-adjusted return. The bank’s profit before
taxes fell to a EUR -1.3 million (-0.1) loss after the expense
level exceeded the 2023 level by EUR 1.4 million.
Business performance in the past year was characterized
by a weak market situation in Finland and, on the other
hand, the merger of Alisa Bank and PURO Finance. The
shift in operational focus towards SME lending, initiated in
spring 2024, was strengthened by the merger with PURO
and the renewed strategy published on September 30.
The organizational and business changes following the
merger were somewhat reflected in the development of
non-recurring expenses towards the end of the year but at
the same time sharpened operations ahead of 2025. The
bank’s BaaS operations strengthened in existing partnerships
and opened numerous new discussions, the results of which
are expected to be announced in early 2025. The flow of
customer contacts generated by the partner model remained
strong among corporate customers, but the weak market
environment was reflected in lower-than-expected demand
for customer-specific financing. The new risk-based pricing
model implemented in December 2024 is expected to be
reflected in demand recovery, especially in the lower-risk SME
target groups. At the same time, the decline in the average
interest rate of financing from 3.1% percent in June to 2.4
percent in December improved the profitability of financing
activities.
After the one-off increase in the loan portfolio (62%)
generated by the PURO merger, the volume development
of business financing was subdued in the second half of
the year. Growth in the business financing loan portfolio
for the full financial year was 16 percent. The corporate
loan portfolio at the end of the financial year was EUR 48
million (41). The number of credit applications developed as
targeted, but the challenging operating environment was
reflected in weak credit quality and, thus, a low volume of
granted financing. The granted financing focused on invoice
financing, which kept the new sales portfolio low-risk. At the
same time, we increased the risk-adjusted return on business
financing, which was also supported by the success of own
channels in deposit fundraising.
In personal customers, our loan portfolio decreased by 23
percent to EUR 102 million (132). The key reason for the drop
was a strategic decision to abandon the use of comparison
platforms and to emphasize new sales to the company’s
own customer base with a better risk profile. The decision
materially improved the profitability of new sales, roughly
doubling the risk-adjusted return from the level seen in
summer 2024. The decision to focus on SME financing
and growing the own deposit base, in line with the new
strategy, reduces the emphasis on personal finance. The
high credit loss ratio of the current personal finance portfolio
will continue to negatively impact the company’s earnings
development throughout 2025.
Our deposits amounted to EUR 395 million (269) at the end of
the period. During the year, the development of the structure
of deposits was two-fold. During the first half of the year, we
sought growth from the comparison portal Raisin while also
exploring the market in different European countries. The
deposit portfolio’s peak level was reached in July 2024, after
which we focused on growing our own deposit base and
optimizing the price level of fundraising. The end result was
a highly predictable portfolio development and better-than-expected profitability of deposits, which in part supported the
bank’s earnings turnaround in the second half of 2024.
We had 68,000 (57,500) active customers at the end of
December. Customer satisfaction increased a bit (Net
Promoter Score 52) from an already strong level (46).
The long sought-after increase in the solvency ratio
materialized in the second half of 2024, supported not only
by the decrease in the loan portfolio but also by positive
earnings development and a successful personnel issue. In
the second half of the financial year, the bank’s CET1 capital
increased by EUR 1.2 million and total capital adequacy ratio
was 17.6 percent (15.1).
A warm thank you to our staff and customers for the past
year - you have been a key part of our turn.