Improved efficiency in a subdued
operating environment — Alma Media
is gearing up for the era of artificial
intelligence
As was the case in the preceding years, the
year 2024 was a strong period for the company's business operations. Our performance
was excellent in spite of the weak economic
cycle, which speaks of our agility and adaptability, the effectiveness of our strategy and the
strength of our diverse portfolio.
The operating environment remained subdued
and uncertain in terms of economic growth,
and the year was characterised by geopolitical
turbulence. This also hampered economic
development across Europe.
Revenue increased by 2.5% to MEUR 312.7
(304.9), with digital services growing by over
30%. Profitability remained high in spite of
lower advertising sales, which was due to the
measures taken by Alma Media to adjust costs,
among other factors. Adjusted operating profit
grew by 4.4% to MEUR 76.9, representing
24.6% of revenue. In 2024, we were close to
our long-term target for operating profit (over
25%), and we decided to raise our operating
profit target to over 30%.
We continued our investments in product
development and business growth, and dozens
of projects were launched across the Group
to take advantage of AI in business. Employee
satisfaction remained at a high level and we
continued to raise the bar with regard to sustainability by increasing our emission reduction
targets, for example.
In spite of making acquisitions during the year,
our financial position remained good thanks
to strong cash flow. Our gearing at the end of
the year stood at 59.4% (65.4%) and our equity
ratio was 48.6% (46.1%).
Alma Career’s revenue came to MEUR 107.2
(110.5), while the depreciation of the Czech
koruna led to adjusted operating profit decreasing by 3.9% to MEUR 43.5, or 40.6% of
revenue. In local currencies, revenue remained
on a par with the comparison period. There
were again significant differences in the labour
market cycle between the segment's operating
countries. Among Alma Career's significant
operating countries, the employment situation
continued to be good in Czechia and Slovakia and, as a result, the demand for labour
remained stable. Recruitment increased particularly in the small and medium-sized customer
segments, but some of the larger customers
continued to postpone their recruitment activities. The labour market situation in Croatia
also remained good, as the unemployment
rate fell below 5% for the first time. In the Baltic
countries and Finland, the situation remained
difficult.
We had a total of 1.2 million paid job adverts
on our recruitment portals during the year. The
total number of visitors to our portals was 72
million and the number of job alerts created by
users was 24 million.
In Alma Marketplaces, revenue increased
by 15.2% to MEUR 98.3 (85.4) and adjusted
operating profit grew by 9.1% to MEUR 28.5.
Digital services grew by as much as 35.3%, and
classified advertising increased by 8.3%, but
advertising declined by 9.9%.
In spite of the subdued market situation in the
automotive and housing verticals, we made
determined progress with our development
projects, particularly with regard to automotive and housing-related system projects.
Customer deployments began for the OviPro
digital real estate agency system. Revenue
from the automotive vertical increased
sharply, by 46.0%, driven by the acquisition of
Netwheels. In digital transactions for residential real estate, the year was characterised
by growth and development: digital DIAS
transactions accounted for nearly half of the
transactions for shares in housing companies
that were mediated by real estate agents. The
number of digital transactions for residential
real estate grew rapidly. Almost 2,100 DIAS
transactions were completed in October
alone.
Strong development also continued in business
premises marketplaces in Finland and particularly in Sweden.
The headwinds in the advertising market were
again felt particularly by the Alma News Media
segment, which performed at an excellent
level when considering the circumstances.
Revenue decreased by 1.8% to MEUR 107.1,
but active cost-cutting measures meant that
adjusted operating profit increased by 10.4%
to MEUR 15.5, or 14.5% of revenue. Digital
business grew to represent 59.4% of the segment’s revenue.
The rate of decline in the segment’s media
advertising slowed towards the end of the
year. Media advertising was 2.8% lower than
the comparison period in Q4 and 4.6% lower
for the full year.
General interest in the news remained at high,
as geopolitical tensions, among other topics,
attracted readers. At the end of the year, Alma
News Media had 207,000 digital subscriptions.
Digital content revenue increased by 14.1%.
Acquisitions and divestments continued
Alma Media acquired the share capital of
the automotive industry software company
Netwheels Oy in January. Netwheels Oy's revenue in 2023 amounted to approximately MEUR
8. The company's majority shareholder was
Sanoma Media Finland, and the shareholders
also included eight Finnish operators in the
automotive sector.
In April, Alma Media Corporation increased its
ownership of Suomen Tunnistetieto Oy from
51% to 75%. Alma Media sold its shares (65%
of the share capital) in the cooking-focused
digital service site Kotikokki net Oy to Rohea
Oy, the minority owner of the company. In
December, Alma Media’s subsidiary Alma
Career Oy acquired 100% ownership of the
Czech online recruitment service provider
Nelisa s.r.o.
Over 84% of Alma Media's revenue is derived
from digital business. Classified advertising
accounts for 39% of revenue, advertising for
19%, digital services for 18% and content for
approximately one-sixth.
Our development is heading towards more
advanced digital trading platforms. We help
our customers to use online services easily
and smoothly, and we provide additional
services at different stages of the transaction
process. In the media business, the digital
transformation from print to digital media is
continuing.
Most of our revenue streams are derived from
digital businesses that have strong market positions, robust competitiveness and an excellent
capability for strong value creation in the long run.
Our strategy includes a comprehensive plan for
the development, growth and scaling up of our
business. We focus on carefully selected business areas that enable profitable growth. We
integrate our own and our customers’ technical
and commercial platforms into seamless solutions and expand our role in value chains. We
make full use of the possibilities presented by
the latest AI-based technology and will continue
to accelerate growth through acquisitions.
Thank you for 2024!
I hope you enjoy reading our Annual Report. The
Sustainability Statement included in the Report
by the Board of Directors complies with the
requirements of the Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive.
We used AI to generate ideas for the background visuals used in this report but, as usual,
all of the people featured in the photos are
Alma employees from various parts of our
organisation.
I want to take this opportunity to thank our employees, customers and stakeholders for their
trust and excellent cooperation in 2024! 