During the year 2024, we progressed well on the mid-term agenda established in late 2023, without losing sight of our long-term ambitions and aspirations. We continued to improve the marginality of our beverage business and strengthen the balance sheet by increasing the share of margin accretive businesses as well as focusing on pricing and revenue management, stable operating expenses and net working capital reduction. As a result, all our segments improved their gross margins in 2024. In 2024, our operating expenses were below last year’s levels in Wine and Industrial segments. In Spirits, we continued to invest in our biggest brands. For example, we launched 17 new Koskenkorva products, from RTD’s to cream liqueurs. The full-year Group gross margin increased to 42.4% (42.0%). The Group gross profit showed a decline of 3.9% to EUR 293.4 (305.4) million in 2024, partly as the comparative year 2023 was impacted by the one-off capital gain from the Larsen divestment of EUR 11.6 million, which was not allocated to any segment. Anora revised its comparable EBITDA guidance range down to EUR 65-70 million on 14 October 2024, due to lower volumes in Wine and Spirits segments in September than previously forecasted especially in the monopoly channels. Towards the end of the year this steep decline eased up somewhat, due to seasonal sales picking up for the festive period. For the full year 2024, our comparable EBITDA increased from EUR 68.2 million to EUR 68.9 million and was 10.0 percent of net sales. The Wine segment delivered notable comparable EBITDA growth, while the other segments declined from the previous year. We made some additional inventory impairments in Wine and Industrial segments, reported as items affecting comparability. The full year net sales were EUR 692.0 million, showing a decline of 4.7%. The Wine and Spirits segment sales were down due to lower volumes. In the Wine segment, Anora regained its overall market leadership in Finland including grocery, due to the successful introduction of up to 8% ABV wines in grocery stores. The Industrial segment’s net sales were negatively impacted by lower sales prices due to declined grain prices, combined with lower production volumes. At the end of the year our cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 181.5 million. Our interest-bearing net debt amounted to EUR 121.6 (137.5) million, while our net interest-bearing debt / comparable EBITDA ratio was 1.8 (2.0). We re-paid our long-term interest-bearing debt by EUR 50.0 million at the end of September, thus lowering our net financial expenses going forward. This also enables our Board of Directors to propose a dividend payment of EUR 0.22 per share for the financial year 2024 to the Annual General Meeting. As we close the year 2024, I would like to thank our customers, partners, shareholders and employees for their contribution during our journey so far. While I have communicated to the Board of Directors of Anora my wish to retire once the new CEO is nominated, we are sustaining our focus on improving the marginality of our beverage business through active mix and revenue management. We also aim to further strengthen our cash position and balance sheet by reducing working capital and improving inventory turnover. We seek to restore organic net sales growth in the Wine and Spirits segments by concentrating our efforts on the largest brands and partnerships. I am convinced that these actions and the progress achieved so far will allow us to get back on track in executing Anora’s ambitious transformation strategy and deliver on our long-term financial targets.