Apetit Group’s favourable development continued
in 2024. We continued to follow the path indicated
by our strategy while also continuing to improve
the efficiency of our daily operations and processes.
Apetit’s basic operations and competitiveness have
been systematically improved, which is also reflected
in the Group’s profit development.
The Group’s result improved by 24 per cent
from the previous year, amounting to EUR 9.3
(7.5) million. Food Solutions achieved a significant
38 per cent improvement in profit performance.
The result of Food Solutions was EUR 8.1 (5.8)
million. The operating result for Oilseed Products
decreased from the comparison year due to the
development of market prices and was EUR 4.2
(4.6) million. The Group’s net sales decreased from
the comparison year due to the change in oilseed
product market prices.

We have taken the steps defined in our strategy
to develop both of the Group’s businesses. The
strategy period, now reaching its final year, has
been a time of investment and reform. In line with
CEO’s review
Apetit moves forward guided by
its strategy — the result improved
from the comparison year
our vision, Growing and profitable market leader
in plant-based products, we have carried out
important fundamental work to improve business
profitability, but at the same time we have also
looked ahead to enable growth.
The bottling line at the Kantvik vegetable oil
milling plant became operational in late 2024 in
accordance with the plan. The investment was
closely aligned with Apetit’s strategy of speeding
up organic growth. On the approximately EUR 4.5
million line, vegetable oils can be bottled in plastic
and glass bottles. With the bottling line, we took the
supply chain of rapeseed oils into our own hands.
The line enables us to build and develop our product
selection more flexibly and to feature domestic origin
more strongly as part of product marketing.
The energy solution at the Säkylä frozen foods plant,
which was upgraded in 2023, has been in use for the
first full year. The energy solution is based on heat
recovery and approximately 60 per cent of the energy
used for heating was produced with heat recovery.
Over the past few years, we have systematically
improved production efficiency at the Säkylä frozen
foods plant. Improving the efficiency of harvest-time
production through means such as investments in
equipment for cleaning root vegetables and peas
and receiving them at the plant has led to process
development and brought about a significant
change in water consumption, for example. In 2024,
the Säkylä frozen foods plant deployed an automatic
container machine on the patty and ball production
line. This improved the efficiency of the line and
eliminated a tedious work phase that was previously
carried out manually.
In the strategically important ERP project, the
production implementation phase was carried
out as planned in Food Solutions. The critical
production and order-delivery system functions were
successfully deployed at the turn of September
and October 2024. Important support systems also
came into use at the same time. The ERP project will
continue according to the planned schedule until the
second half of 2025, proceeding to the production
implementation phase in Oilseed Products.

We rely on domestic raw materials in both of
our businesses. This is manifested in long-term cooperation with Finnish farmers and investments in
the development of domestic primary production.
The first full operational year of the RypsiRapsiforum included a significant number of variety tests
carried out as strip and square tests in different parts
of the domestic turnip rape and rapeseed cultivation
area. In April 2024, a multi-year project co-funded
by the European Union was launched with the aim
of increasing the cultivation reliability and volume
of turnip rape and rapeseed in Finland. In 2024, the
turnip rape and rapeseed harvests in Finland increased from the previous year, but we believe there is
still a long way to go to reach a target level.
We have continued to invest in research at
the Räpi experimental farm and in the joint
development of operations with our contract
farmerss. Finnish field vegetables grown by
our contract farmers are the cornerstone of our
operations in Food Solutions. Although the harvest
season 2024 was not without challenges, we
received a very good harvest from the fields of our
contract farmers. The frozen pea cultivation area
was record-large. The world-renowned and unique
Finnish pea is a significant growth opportunity for
Apetit. The experiences of the past harvest season
showed that we are able to further increase the
volume of peas grown and processed. In the 2025
harvest season, we will increase the pea cultivation
area and add onion to the contract farmed crops.

Apetit is carrying out two important projects to improve self-sufficiency in plant proteins in Finland. Both
the BlackGrain from Yellow Fields rapeseed powder
made from turnip rape and rapeseed and Finnish
pea protein are opportunities for Apetit to increase
the share of added-value products. We proceed
with projects with consideration but also with
determination. Demand for plant protein products is
predicted to increase sharply, but for a product to be
successful, all elements must be just right.
BlackGrain is an exceptional product. It received
a novel food authorisation in 2021. BlackGrain is
used to improve the taste, texture and nutritional
characteristics of other foods. BlackGrain is mild in
taste and contains fibre, protein and good fats. Its
applications could include, for example, plant protein
products, meatballs, snack products and baking
products. It is an excellent match to new national
nutritional recommendations. What is significant
about BlackGrain is that it genuinely shortens the
food chain: it is made from an existing product, which
is generated by vegetable oil milling.
We are analysing different options for the
production of BlackGrain rapeseed powder. The
analysis assesses potential partnerships and the
organisation of production either through making an
investment in the Kantvik vegetable oil milling plant
or with purchased services. The analysis is expected
to be completed in 2025.

We have continued to take concrete actions to
promote our sustainability work. The greenhouse
gas emissions related to energy used by our own
operations have decreased by as much as 73
per cent since 2019. Our target of a 75 per cent
reduction by the end of 2025 is thus approaching.
A significant change has been achieved by investing
in renewable energy solutions.
In recent years, we have invested particularly in
reducing the climate impacts of our own operations.
However, as most of the climate impacts of Apetit’s
operations are generated in different parts of the
company’s value chain, we are currently setting
science-based emission reduction targets for the
entire Apetit value chain. The European Union’s and
Finland’s climate policies set significant emission
reduction targets for the food product chain, and the
achievement of these targets requires investments
throughout the chain.
The renewal of packaging solutions has been a
significant part of our sustainability work. In line
with the goal set in Apetit’s corporate responsibility
programme, we have increased the use of
recyclable packaging materials. In 2024, recyclable
packaging materials were introduced for domestic
peas and spinach, for example. The goal is that
by the end of 2025 we will only use recyclable
packaging materials.
The bottling line investment at the Kantvik
vegetable oil milling plant will significantly reduce
the amount of plastic we use in rapeseed oil bottles.
From now on, our plastic use will decrease by 41 per
cent on average, taking into account all three sizes
of Apetit’s rapeseed oil plastic bottles. The bottles
receive their final shape only when they are on the
bottling line, which significantly reduces the space
required at all stages of the logistics chain.

We have defined four main focus areas for Apetit’s
current strategy period: Stronger together, Diverse
plant-based food products, More domestic plant
proteins, Sustainable value chain. As the last year of
the strategy period begins, we can note that Apetit
has moved forward along the path indicated by its
strategy. We can also see that the phenomena we
have identified in the operating environment, such
as making daily life easier, well-being, domestic
origin of food and climate-responsible actions, have
been significant drivers for Apetit.
The new national nutritional recommendations
published in late 2024 not only provide direction
for Finns’ future diets, but also reflect food trends
that have already been visible. Plant-focused
eating habits contribute to planetary health
diets and are also a good choice for people’s
well-being. Following a varied diet with plenty of
vegetables, adding legumes and plant proteins to
the diet and increasing the use of vegetable oils, as
recommended in the nutritional recommendations,
also support Apetit’s future prospects.
We continue our work to develop Apetit into a
growing and profitable market leader in plant-based
products. Apetit’s financial position is strong, and
it has enabled our existing and future investments
in the development of the company. Our strong
partners are Finnish farmers and primary production,
other suppliers and customers as well as our skilled
personnel.
I would like to take this opportunity to warmly
thank all Apetit employees for the year 2024! Many
thanks also to the owners, customers, contract
farmers and partners - together we have built
success and created a strong foundation for the
future.