Dear investors and business partners
As we close the chapter on the year 2024 and
open a new one for 2025, I write to you with a
mixed message of positive developments and
some continuing challenges that we will need
to tackle in the years ahead, but as always
with a great deal of hope for a better
tomorrow.
At the end of 2023, in an address to the Tallink
Grupp employees, the Management Board of
Tallink Grupp expressed hope for a more
stable year 2024 for the company, our
employees, our region and the world. This
hope was based on the first signs of recovery
from the pandemic years, some expectation of
positive developments in the geopolitical
situation in Europe and the company’s own
progress in 2023. However, what we witnessed
instead during the year was increasing
geopolitical tensions, continuing economic
challenges leading to reduced consumer
purchasing power and confidence, and overall
continued turbulence. Despite this, we
continued to challenge the status quo and
punched above our weight in our core
markets, on our core routes and in our key
business areas, delivering a year-end result
that can be considered satisfactory in the
circumstances.
Competitive pressures on all our routes, and
particularly in cargo transport, meant that the
volumes of units carried in 2024 were down
compared to the previous year, but our
profitability remained strong. We decided to
stick to our strategy of pricing our services
according to the quality we provide, i.e. above
our competitors’ prices, and we believe this
was the right approach as the profitability of
our cargo business improved during the year,
despite the limited decline in volumes.
We followed the same approach and strategy
in our pricing for passenger transport, as we
believe that maritime transport in the Baltic
Sea should be of high quality, that in order to
provide quality you have to continue to invest,
and that in order to continue to invest and
provide quality, you have to charge the right
price. We will continue to monitor the level of
consumer confidence and purchasing power
in our markets and adjust our strategies
accordingly.
In 2024, we also faced the new
regulatory charges arising from
the EU Emissions Trading
System, which means that we
will increasingly have to cover
the costs of our environmental
footprint, while at the same time
investing in technologies and
solutions that enable us to
reduce it.
Compensating for the greenhouse gas
emissions caused by our operations, while
investing in transitional technologies and
solutions to reduce our impact on the climate,
is another financial challenge for all shipping
companies, so it is understandable that some
of the costs have to be passed on to our
customers as environmental surcharges.
Unfortunately, these surcharges will only
increase in the coming years as the costs and
investments required of us also increase.
In addition to the challenge of increased costs
arising from climate-related regulations and
requirements, the significant increase in
bureaucracy was a concern in 2024 that we sought to address with key stakeholders and decision-makers in this area. It was an issue that was
widely discussed in the media over the year, as there is a recognition that we are on the cusp of
excessive regulation and red tape. There is a general understanding that red tape needs to be reined
in before it starts to hinder economic growth in the EU.
This annual report is a good example of this, as this year we present our first report that also includes
the CSRD-compliant ESG report. Tallink Grupp is one of only eight companies in Estonia that are part
of the first wave of EU companies required to produce this report, and we would be lying if we said that
producing this first report has not been challenging. It has been. Even though we have been sharing
our sustainability reports with you for decades under other standards, so this is nothing new for us.
But every new regulation and standard has its teething problems and takes time to get right. So we
hope that this new CSRD-compliant report will serve its purpose, that you will find it useful and that it
will help achieve its main objective – greater transparency, clarity and comparability of sustainability
goals, activities and performance. And that it has been worth the significant effort.
In terms of our operations in general, we continued to maintain an optimal level of vessels in regular
service and chartered out in 2024, similar to the past few years since the start of the Covid pandemic,
and foresee the same strategy for our business in the coming years as passenger traffic continues to
recover slowly due to economic and geopolitical pressures in the region. We continue to seek work for
the vessels that are currently out of service and our team is working hard to secure profitable charter
options and projects for the vessels. At the same time, we continue to ensure that we provide the best
products and services on our existing core routes here in the Baltic Sea, thereby further improving the
profitability of these routes year-on-year. Our teams have a host of projects and plans in the pipeline,
all aimed at delivering an increasingly tailored and personalised service to our customers to meet their
needs and offering the best possible leisure options for the most enjoyable short breaks on and around
the Baltic Sea.
Dear investors and business partners, thank you for your support and faith in us and our future as we
focus our efforts on another year that will hopefully bring stability and progress towards recovery. The
change in our majority shareholding in 2024 has shown us that there is great confidence in our future
among some of our greatest supporters, and this support encourages us to continue working towards
the future we want for us, our employees, our business partners, our customers and our investors.