Growth and development towards
net sales of a billion euros For Aspo Group, 2024 marked a year of strategy
implementation, laying a solid foundation
for future growth and profitability. In all our
businesses, we made progress in line with our
strategy and took significant steps forward
In early 2024, ESL Shipping faced a challenging market environment due to political strikes and difficult ice conditions. Company’s balance sheet was significantly
strengthened in February 2024, when OP
Infra and Varma invested EUR 45 million in
ESL Shipping and became minority owners
of the company. In addition, we sold two
Supramax vessels not fitted to our strategy at EUR 33.5 million.
In October, we made the largest ever
investment decision of EUR 186 million on
green Handysize-class vessels. These vessels use e-methanol and offer ESL Shipping’s customers a completely fossil-free
alternative in sea transportation.
During the year, four new highly energy-efficient Green Coaster electric hybrid
vessels equipped with the latest environmentally friendly technology were also
launched in commercial traffic.
These investments further strengthen
ESL Shipping’s position as a sustainable
and competitive shipping company.
Aspo executed its 2024 strategy
focusing on growth, sustainability,
and new markets. Telko operated in relatively stable markets and increased delivered volumes
organically, at the same time gaining market shares from its competitors. However,
market demand remained weak.
We expanded our operations to Western
Europe through strategic business acquisitions. We strengthened our position by
acquiring Optimol and Greenfluid, high-quality industrial lubricant distributors, in France
and Benelux in March, and Polyma Kunststoffen GmbH & Co KG, a distributor of
well-known technical plastics in Germany,
in June. In October, we acquired Swed Handling AB, the leading Swedish chemical distributor, which has a strong position in the
Swedish markets.
These acquisitions strengthen Telko’s
position and expertise in key markets,
offering new growth and synergy opportunities.
Leipurin faced falling market prices and
weak trust among consumers, due to which
net sales decreased slightly. However, sales
began to increase towards the end of the
year. Leipurin’s strategy and development
measures were successful, and operating
profit increased significantly in 2024 compared to previous years.
Growth was also supported by business acquisitions. We strengthened our
position in Sweden by acquiring Kebelco
as part of the Swed Handling transaction.
Kebelco serves the food industry with technical products. We expanded our operations in Lithuania by signing an agreement
to acquire the food distribution operations
of Kartagena. The transaction, completed
in Q1 2025 included the transfer of warehousing, customer and supplier relations to
Leipurin.
SUSTAINABILITY AND STRATEGY LAY
THE FOUNDATION FOR GROWTH
The past year was significant for Aspo
in terms of sustainability. We have taken
steps forward by further integrating sustainability into our business strategy and by
setting ambitious targets to help mitigate
climate change. We integrated sustainability into our strategy. All our businesses are
committed to science-based targets.
2024 was characterized by the implementation of our strategy. We updated our
strategy in May and set straightforward
long-term financial targets. While the markets did not recover as expected, business
acquisitions and investments increased.
With the updated strategy, we are building significant growth and value. Aspo’s
new financial goal is to achieve net sales
of EUR 1 billion and an operating profit
rate (EBITA) of 8% in 2028. 2024 brought
with it challenges in the markets that especially affected the operations of ESL Shipping and Telko. However, Aspo’s net sales
increased from the previous year by 10.5%
to EUR 592.6 million. Comparable EBITA
was EUR 29.1 million, 4.9% of net sales.
Operating profit of Aspo Group was EUR
18.6 million, comprising 3.1% of net sales.
Finally, I would like to extend warm
thanks to our shareholders and partners
for your trust and support. I would like to
express my special thanks to our committed and skilled personnel. Together, we will
continue our determined work towards the
targets and a successful future.