Although 2024 was still a challenging year on the whole for Aspocomp, the operating
environment improved clearly in the second half of the year as demand for the
company’s products turned to strong growth. Since the situation developed
positively, especially in the Semiconductor Industry as well as in the Security, Defense and Aerospace customer segments, Aspocomp’s order
book almost doubled to EUR 20 million.
Aspocomp posted its best net sales of the year in the last quarter, EUR 7.9 million, as demand grew strongly in the Semiconductor Industry customer segment and demand also rose significantly in the Security, Defense and Aerospace customer
segment. However, full-year 2024 net sales decreased by 15
percent and amounted to EUR 27.6 million.
The significant capacity expansion at the Oulu plant initiated in the third quarter and the successful recruitment
of production personnel made it possible for Aspocomp to
pull its operating result into the black during the last quarter.
The plant focused on improving and stabilizing production
throughput towards the end of the year. Production volumes
and invoicing rose to a good level due to strong demand in
the Semiconductor Industry customer segment, and at the
end of 2024, the plant’s production capacity utilization rate was
at an excellent level. To improve production throughput, we focused not only on recruitment but also on developing processes
related to production control. This development work will continue in the coming year. From the perspective of the company’s financial position, it is significant that the substantial increase in capacity and
production volumes was made without increasing the company’s net working capital. Our goal was to start 2025 in a good position in terms of demand,
production volumes and profitability, and this goal was achieved. With the three-year
agreement between Technology Industries of Finland and the Industrial Union, the outlook for
delivery capacity in 2025 is good.
As the result for the financial year is a loss, Aspocomp’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual
General Meeting that no dividend be paid for the financial year 2024.
We expect demand for Aspocomp’s products to remain at a good level in 2025. In particular, demand in the semiconductor market is expected to remain high due to large investments in artificial
intelligence applications and data centers. In the Security, Defense and Aerospace customer segment, we have gained new customers during 2024, and growth in demand is expected to continue
in 2025 and remain strong in the long term. This will enable the future adjustment of the balance
between customer segments in a way that reduces fluctuations in overall demand.
Aspocomp estimates that its net sales for 2025 will grow significantly from the 2024 level, and that
its operating result for 2025 will turn clearly profitable. In 2024, net sales amounted to EUR 27.6 million and the operating result was a loss of EUR 4.0 million.
I would like to express my warmest thanks to the company’s personnel for their valuable work
and especially for their great efforts to improve the company’s production throughput towards the
end of the year.