Excellent result in a changing operating
environment
The start of 2024 was ambiguous for Atria. Behind us was a
strong result for 2023, good net sales development, and
investments and efficiency improvement projects that had
progressed to plan. Despite this, the outlook was volatile, as
inflation and the weakened economic outlook negatively
affected purchasing power and consumer demand.
However, 2024 proved more positive for the food market than
initially anticipated. In a changing operating environment, our
diverse product offering enabled us to meet both the everyday
and special demands of consumers and customers, despite the
less than favourable economic cycle.
A financially strong 2024
In 2024, our Group’s financial performance was strong. Atria
Group’s net sales increased to EUR 1,755 million, while the
adjusted EBIT was approximately EUR 65.4 million, which was
EUR 15.8 million more than in the previous year. A favourable
sales structure and improved operational efficiency had a
positive impact on performance. We improved our results in all
our business areas.
In 2024, the Group’s net sales increased, and profitability
improved, thanks especially to Atria Sweden’s business. The
result in Sweden was especially improved by growing sales, the
centralisation of production and the streamlining of the
organisational structure.
Atria Finland’s result development was also positive, the good
result being particularly boosted by a very successful barbecue
season. The implemented efficiency measures, a favourable
sales structure and the commissioning of the new poultry plant
in Nurmo also strengthened the result. However, the subdued
Foodservice market combined with a decrease in feed prices
led to a decrease in the net sales of Atria Finland as a whole.
Atria Estonia’s sales and profit also increased, and the company’s
profitability and market position improved. Atria Estonia invested in
local pork production and bought two pig farms in Southern Estonia,
ensuring the continued supply of domestically produced pork.
Atria Denmark improved its operational efficiency and invested in a
new production process for whole-meat cold cuts, which will enable
Atria to strengthen its sales and market shares in the cold cuts
product category.
Becoming the Winning Northern European
Food Company
Atria’s good market position, strong local brands, good customer
relationships and reliable industrial processes provide good
conditions for business stability. Atria is Finland’s best-known food
brand. In Denmark, our 3-Stjernet brand is strong in cold cuts, and in
Estonia, Maks & Moorits continues its triumphs as the country’s
most popular brand in meat products. In Sweden, 100 percent of the
raw materials used in Lönneberga brand products are of Swedish
origin. The market share of Lönneberga products has developed
positively in recent years. Our goal is to grow where there is growth, especially in poultry and
convenience food, and we succeeded in this in 2024. In Finland, we
experienced good growth in convenience foods and managed to
increase our market share in that segment. Our acquisitions and
investments were especially oriented towards these growing
segments. For example, we acquired the Swedish ready meals
company Gooh!, which is a clear market leader in the fresh
microwave meals product segment in the Swedish retail trade, with
a market share of around 25 percent.
One of the highlights of the year was the completion and
commissioning of the new Nurmo poultry plant. This is the largest
single investment in Atria’s history and takes us one step closer to
our vision of becoming the Winning Northern European Food
Company. I’m proud of the dedicated and persistent work of our
employees and partners in this demanding project, which was
successfully completed as planned.
In the autumn, the start of Atria’s poultry exports to China was also
confirmed, which was a significant step for Atria’s food exports and
Finnish food production as a whole. The first shipments of poultry
products left for China in late 2024. The traceability of Atria’s poultry
products, the welfare of production animals and the fact the the
products are antibiotics-free and salmonella-free provide a
significant competitive advantage, especially in export markets.
Sustainably produced food from field to
fork
Atria’s most important environmental goal is to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions throughout the food chain. We are committed to
reducing emissions from our own operations (Scopes 1 and 2) by
42 percent by 2030 compared to 2020 levels, and our reduction
target for Scope 3 emissions is 20 percent per tonne of processed
meat.
Our emissions reduction measures for our own production focus
particularly on energy solutions such as the investment in electric
boilers at the Nurmo plant, which will reduce emissions by more
than 30 percent. Atria is also investing in a biogas plant in Nurmo
with Suomen Lantakaasu, which helps reduce the climate emissions
of the primary production of pork and beef in particular.
Producers play a key role in reducing environmental impacts. Atria
and Valio have developed a Carbo® calculator, which was
introduced to all Atria contract beef farms in 2024. The calculator
helps farms calculate their climate impact and reduce their
emissions.
We have consistently invested in the wellbeing and development of
our work community. We increased internal communication and
invested in joint training programmes for the entire Group. In
addition, the business areas have launched their own programmes
to improve the wellbeing of employees. For Atria, safety at work
and the wellbeing of our employees are of paramount importance,
and this work continued in all business areas. The measures taken
are reflected in the improved results of employee satisfaction
surveys.
For example, Atria employees are closely involved in the Group’s
innovation and quality work. Atria’s new innovation programme Atria
Growth Engine (AGE) has brought together 26 Atria employees from
different countries to find new perspectives on future business and
to support Atria’s development work. To improve quality, we are
continuing the Number One in Quality project and expanding quality
work throughout the organisation through the Quality Ambassadors
programme.
Our support also extends to producers: in the autumn of 2024, the
second Atria 100 Young Producers training programme started with
more than 30 young producers. The aim is to promote the
continuation of the valuable work carried out on family farms.
Our focus is on profitable growth
During 2025, we will be working on Atria’s new Group strategy,
which will be one of our major projects this year. We will involve
more employees in the preparation of our strategy. The new
strategy aims to support the company’s long-term growth goals and
strengthen our ability to adapt flexibly to changing market
conditions. Our goal is to have the new strategy completed and
adopted in the autumn of 2025.
I would like to extend my warm thanks to our customers,
employees, meat producers, partners and shareholders for their
excellent cooperation in 2024. Let’s keep up the good work to
provide good food for every occasion this year as well because
Good food – better mood.