Our best net operating profit
ever, EUR 65 million
During 2024, we saw central banks change their stance. Having fought high inflation in 2023 by
raising their key interest rates, they switched to a more stimulative policy by cutting their key rates.
They also shifted their focus to getting economic growth moving again after inflation seemed
defeated, at least in the short term.
Even though the Ukraine war was entering its
third year, while Israel and Hamas continued
their war in the Middle East, we could see optimism in the world’s stock markets. One of the
few exceptions, again, was the Finnish stock
exchange, which fell by 6 per cent during 2024
while the Stockholm exchange rose by the same
percentage. The American stock market soared
by over 20 per cent, largely driven by the seven
stocks widely known as the “magnificent seven”.
Short-term market interest rates, which
began 2024 at around 4 per cent, fell to just
above 2.5 per cent by the end of the year.
One consequence of falling market interest
rates was that we began to see shrinking interest
margins among Swedish and Finnish banks.
The Bank of Åland was no exception here.
Despite falling market interest rates, there
was still little appetite in Finland for new
borrowing, either among home mortgage loan
customers or businesses. In Sweden, risk appetite among mortgage borrowers seemed a little
higher, but the mood there was still relatively
cautious.
The Swedish krona remained weak throughout 2024, hovering at just below SEK 11.50 per
EUR. A weak Swedish krona is unfavourable to
the Bank of Åland’s earnings and volume growth,
since our financial reporting is in euros.
Continued growth in assets under management but a smaller balance sheet
During 2024, we saw a continued inflow of new
customers to the Bank. Thanks to a mainly positive performance in the world’s equity markets
and a net inflow of EUR 240 M into our financial
investment products, we were able to close the
year at a new record level of EUR 10.6 billion in terms of actively managed capital. This was 9
per cent higher than our 2023 record figure.
Overall income from asset management in
our financial investment services was very good
during 2024, and we can clearly demonstrate
the added value we can offer our customers.
One exception was our Housing Fund, which had
to struggle with a weak residential real estate
market. We saw that this also happened to our
competitors’ corresponding funds.
Lending decreased as planned
Our lending decreased by 7 per cent to EUR 3,576
M. The main reason for this shrinking volume was
that as planned, we carried out our third migration of Swedish home mortgage loans to the
mortgage company Borgo, which we own
together with ICA Bank, Ikano Banken, Söderberg
& Partners and Sparbanken Syd. During the summer, we handed over mortgage loans with a total
value of SEK 3.0 billion. If we disregard this migration, we had a slightly higher lending volume, but
it was clear that customers were still hesitant to
take out new loans.
The volume that we handle for Borgo (managed mortgages) ‒ with our subsidiary Crosskey
managing its IT operations while the Bank of
Åland’s corporate units handle most of Borgo’s
other day-to-day transactions ‒ increased by 13
per cent during the year to EUR 3,080 M.
The Bank of Åland does not bear any credit risk
in this collaboration but is only a service provider.
Deposits remained at previous levels
Deposits ended 2024 at EUR 3,521 M, which was
marginally lower than one year earlier. Early in
2024, we continued to see many customers
choosing to use their deposits to pay down their
loans, which now had clearly higher interest rates
than they had had in previous years. In the fourth
quarter, however, we saw rising deposit volume.
Increased total income  
During 2024, total income increased by 7 per
cent to EUR 216.4 M. Higher market interest rates
contributed to better margins and a 5 per cent
higher net interest income than in 2023. Towards
the end of the year, however, we saw falling market interest rates beginning to have a negative
impact on margins.
Net commission income remained at the previous year’s level of EUR 76.4 million. In 2023, our
commission income benefited from performancerelated income of EUR 4 million. In 2024, we did
not have any corresponding income. This means
that underlying commission income increased
primarily thanks to higher customer activity on
the financial investment side and higher customer
volume in actively managed assets.
Our IT income rose by 22 per cent to EUR 35.1 M.
New customers at Crosskey and several significant projects led to a clear increase in project
income. Crosskey’s order book looks good all
the way into 2026.
Also increased total expenses
During 2024, total expenses increased by 6 per
cent to EUR 147.3 M, which was in keeping with
our expectations. We continued to invest in
more employees. Converted into full-time equivalent hours, our headcount increased by 71 positions or 8 per cent to 977. Staff costs rose by 8
per cent to EUR 87.9 M. We are now seeing a
decreasing need for new services both in the
corporate units and in our business, since we
have already recruited employees to enable us
to handle rising customer volume.
Other expenses increased by 13 per cent to
EUR 47.1 M. One reason for rising expenses in this
area was costs related to customers who were
exposed to various types of telephone and SMS
fraud. The Bank of Åland has invested in both
information campaigns and improved opportunities to offer customers additional security
measures.
During 2024, our statutory fees fell to zero
from EUR 3.2 million in the previous year, since
the stability funds collected from banks at the
EU level have now reached their target amounts.
Record-high earnings  
We closed 2024 with a net operating profit of
EUR 65.0 million, which was 5 per cent better
than in 2023. Over the past six years, the Bank
of Åland has delivered a net operating profit
that has set new records on five occasions.
During this year, it was our net interest income
and IT income that took big steps in the right
direction. In our previous record-setting years,
it was usually our net commission income that
gave us higher earnings despite a negative
interest rate environment, due to rising asset
management volume.
Our ability to generate record earnings
regardless of the interest rate environment or
turbulent times demonstrates that the Bank has
a smoothly functioning and well-diversified
business model today.
The Bank’s long-term financial target is to
generate a return on equity after taxes (ROE)
exceeding 15 per cent. In 2024, we achieved a
return of 17.9 per cent. We have also announced
that we expect ROE to continue to exceed our
long-term target of 15 per cent in 2025.
Continued efforts to create a corporate
culture appreciated by both customers
and employees  
We usually describe what we do with the words:
Living up to this description requires knowledgeable employees. The knowledge they need
to possess not only applies to how our services
work or how markets and regulations work but
must also include a large portion of soft values,
such as knowing how to adapt to a customer’s
needs and how to fit into our ever-expanding
team at the Bank of Åland.
To support each other in this effort, we work
continuously with corporate cultural issues that
guide us on the path we choose. On December
20, we moved into our completely renovated
Head Office in Mariehamn, which has gained two more floors ‒ the so-called Copper Building.
For about 18 months, our employees had been
relocated to various places in Mariehamn, but
now we are able to move back in together. This
will facilitate our team building and continued
corporate cultural work.
As we consciously work with these issues,
it was especially gratifying to take part in Kantar
Prospera’s customer survey, where we were
named Finland’s best Private Bank for the fourth
year in a row. Two of the categories that customers value the most, according to the survey ‒
willingness to provide service and personalised
contact ‒ were categories that we won. In addition, the Bank of Åland was the bank that customers were most likely to recommend. Of the
thirteen categories measured, we came out as
number one in nine categories. With this type of
award, we feel even more convinced that we
should continue to operate as a bank that cultivates long-term relationships.
During the year, we were also able to see
continued high customer satisfaction figures in
our own surveys within our Premium customer
segment.
Among our employees, we regularly monitor
many different areas, but one metric that summarises large parts of this is our commitment
index. It was gratifying to see the average score
climb during 2024.
Sustainability issues ‒ an increasingly
clear part of our everyday lives
Since 1997, the Bank of Åland has worked
together with our customers on sustainability
issues. This shows that we are not doing so just
because the authorities are now beginning to
demand action from all banks, but we are doing
it out of our own conviction.
This is natural at a bank that thinks longterm, and we wish to contribute to meeting the
United Nations sustainable development goals.
During 2024, we worked our way deeper into
the various dimensions of sustainability issues.
We have clear targets and are measuring our
impact in more and more areas. Through our
double materiality analysis, we have a good
insight into both our direct impact as a company
and the indirect impacts caused by our services
and products. In some areas, it must be noted
that the answers that emerge are not always
exact, but they do provide us with guidance.
During the year, extensive work was done to
enable us to comply with the requirements of
the European Union’s new Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). A direct
consequence of this extensive effort is our new
sustainability report, which comprises a total of
117 pages.
We are a bank that has the ambition to grow.
At the same time, we have set targets for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Combining
growth with reduced emissions requires both
knowledge and a readiness to make conscious
decisions. However, we are convinced that our customers and partners want to be part of our journey
and contribute to a more sustainable world.
Continuing on our chosen path  
When we look at the trust that more and more
customers choose to give us, combined with the
fact that it is demonstrably possible to run a
relationship bank in a profitable way, we are
increasingly convinced that we should continue
along our chosen path without the need for
major changes. Meanwhile, we know that there
are many areas where we can still improve, and
that is where we will exert our efforts in the coming years.
I would like to express my deep gratitude to
all our employees and also many thanks to our
existing and new customers for the trust that
you show us.