The most significant successes of 2024
are related in particular to customer projects. These include the completion of
the CEM III shotcrete development for Outokumpu, the approval by the Concrete Association
and the achievement of CE marking readiness
for the world’s lowest carbon hollow-core slabs
developed by Betolar for Consolis Parma. In
addition, new Betolar innovations for which patents have been filed, such as the use of various
sidestreams and inventions for metal fractioning,
were significant achievements in addition to
product development breakthroughs, such as
passing the challenging double-sided salt
freeze thaw tests for concrete products.
On the mining side, the market showed strong
interest in Betolar’s low-carbon and waste-free solutions. We started commercial discussions
with a number of different mining companies in
the second half of the year and signed several
memoranda of understanding with companies
such as Norge Minerals and Latitude 66 Ltd.
This shows that there is significant demand in
the mining sector for Betolar’s new innovative
and low-carbon solutions.
The market situation, particularly in the construction sector, continued to be challenging.
Although several successful customer pilot projects were completed, many players in the sector took a time-out in bringing low-carbon products to market. However, interest in low-carbon
concrete products remained high.
2024 was a year of significant change for
Betolar. The company’s strategy was refocused on the mining, metals and sidestream business
segments. This led to a major organizational
change and the start of change negotiations for
the Finnish workforce in late spring. There were
also personnel changes in the company’s management and the size of the management team
was reduced from seven to three people.
Change is always a challenge and requires
stretching and commitment from the whole
organization. Towards the end of the year, however, these changes started to produce the
desired results.
I want to thank all Betolar staff for their excellent work towards new innovations and a
low-carbon future. I also thank all our customers,
partners and stakeholders for their trust and
good cooperation.
