Overall, 2024 was a strong year for Biohit. Our revenue grew from EUR 13.1 million the
previous year to EUR 14.3 million. This is an increase of 9.2%. Operating profit amounted
to EUR 2.6 million, up from EUR 1.8 million in the previous year. In addition to revenue,
profitability also improved. The operating profit margin was 17.9%, while in 2023 it
was 14.0%.
The increase in revenue in 2024 was largely driven by additional sales to existing customers.
By product group, the sales for the year were divided into two categories: Early in the year,
we sold a large amount of lower-margin OEM products, while during the latter part of the
year, the focus shifted to higher-margin in-house production. In terms of geography, sales
were highly dispersed.
There were some deals made, but the real theme for 2024 was the creation of opportunities for the years to come. Much of the work we have done must remain behind a veil of
business secrets, but a few major developments from last year were made public after the
period under review.
GastroPanel’s UK conquest took a leap in the right direction after a study by the London-based Homerton University
Hospital confirmed the test to be highly accurate.
During the year, we secured extensive European distribution rights for Biomedal’s gluten tests for Biohit. This is a
move in line with our strategy. Our UK subsidiary has long
combined the sale of Biohit’s own products and high-quality
distribution products that complement the offering. The
Biomedal distribution rights are the first step towards
scaling the proven model to the entire company. Although,
in accordance with our mission, the core of our operations
will continue to be our own innovation, considering today’s
regulatory climate, it is rational to also grow our product
portfolio with distribution products. Our status as a premium
operator and our existing sales organisation provide good
conditions for this type of business scaling.
One of our major endeavours last year was the development of the FAEX sample tube and perfecting it for sales.
After realising that no high-quality sample collection tube
that met our needs existed on the market, we developed
one ourselves. The sample tube is quantitatively accurate and, being compatible with laboratory infrastructure,
extremely versatile. Going forward, we will use the tube
ourselves in our own ColonView (FIT) test, for example, as
well as sell it to other test manufacturers and end users.
Our successes in 2024 definitely include the letter of intent
concluded with the Singapore-based Restalyst, which was
announced in February 2025. Restalyst’s gastric cancer test
perfectly complements Biohit’s GastroPanel test, which
indicates risks for the very same cancer. The synergy benefits
are significant, and the collaboration also opens up new
sales channels for Biohit’s products through RestaGroup’s
laboratories and cooperation network.
Lessons from 2024
The lessons from the past year can be summarised as follows:
1. Even if you don’t hear anything from us, we are systematically creating future opportunities all the time. We will
let you know when things are good and ready. We don’t
believe in making premature announcements.
2. Biohit is a credible and desirable partner for other
premium operators in gastrointestinal diagnostics.
3. We are doing the right things, but they sometimes
move painfully slowly. You can’t control everything.
Registrations are one thing, but distributors’ own
processes are also slow, and even the validation of
already registered products takes time.
4. There are always bumps in the road. Our products
have been sold in several countries in the Middle East for
years, but last year we had to postpone deliveries to the
region for the first time due to challenges with payment
transactions.
Into the new year with our eye on the ball
Thanks to a more efficient organisation, a product portfolio
that offers added value and a clear strategy, we are entering
the year 2025 with confidence in our own work and from a
good starting position. Things are going in the right direction. However, we can only reap the benefits once progress
is made in dealing with regulation and changing the clinical
practice guidelines, one country and market area at a time.
Change is slow and there are bumps in the road. Showing
off on a bumpy road is a bad combination, and that is why
actions will also come before words in 2025.
The biggest risks to growth relate to the Middle East.
Visibility is still limited and our guidance assumes that
sales volumes will not return to normal during the first
half of the year.
Guidance for 2025:
We expect our revenue to rise to EUR 15.7–17.1 million in
2025 (an increase of 10–20% when compared to 2024) and
our operating profit margin to be 10–20.