Our persistence pays off
- CE mark received in
January 2025
For Bioretec, year 2024 was a great achievement
as we managed to grow our net sales despite
the delayed market approvals and significant
investment in building out our U.S. infrastructure.
We made significant progress
in implementing our strategy
by initiating the second phase
of the RemeOs™ Trauma Screw
launch in the U.S., bolstered by
new distribution and logistics
agreements. Additionally, we
raised new capital to enhance
commercialization efforts and
product development. As a major significant achievement,
we received CE mark approval for
the RemeOs Trauma Screw product
portfolio in January 2025, marking
a critical milestone in our pursuit of
expanded commercial growth.
In 2024, out net sales increased by
16 percent from the previous year,
reaching EUR 4,5 million. The net
sales consisted mainly of our Activa
products, as the second phase of
the launch of RemeOs Trauma Screw
begun in 2024 in the U.S. and the CE
mark approval allowing the launch in
Europe was received in January 2025.
Our net sales in Europe increased
by 46 percent and in the U.S. 30
percent, while the development
in the rest of the world remained
relatively stable. Despite a slight dip
in our sales margin influenced by
China’s volume-based procurement
policies earlier this year, our margins
improved during the last quarter of
2024 due to increased share of sales
in the U.S.
Expanding the launch in the U.S.
The launch of RemeOs Trauma
Screws in the U.S. yielded excellent
patient results and excellent posthealing follow-ups. This success
established a strong foundation
for entering the second phase of
commercialization for RemeOs
products in the U.S. In this phase,
we will focus on expanding the
distribution of the RemeOs Trauma
Screw beyond the initial selected
group of hospitals to a broader
network. In addition to RemeOs
products, we are also expanding
availability of the Activa product line
to the U.S. market.
To support these efforts, we
successfully signed two important new cooperation agreements.
In November, we entered into a
new logistics agreement with GlobalMed Logistix (GMLx), a
leader in healthcare logistics, that
operates its own logistics center
on the east coast of the United
States and has a nationwide
network. This agreement ensures
high service levels for customers
throughout the U.S. market with
seamless import and distribution
of implants and instrument sets to
hospitals. Additionally, we signed
an important agreement with TriState Biologics (TSB), a leading
distributor of medical and surgical
products based in greater New York
and Boston area. This distributor
OVERVIEW – FROM CEO’S PERSPECTIVE
partnership will enable the efficient
sales and distribution of our products
to hospitals in one of the most
populated areas of the United States.
A successful share issue
In addition to the commercial
progress of the trauma screw, we are
excited about the positive results of
the RemeOs Spinal Interbody Cage,
which received FDA’s Breakthrough
Device Designation status. To
speed-up the commercialization
of RemeOs Trauma Screw products
and overall product development
strategy, including the RemeOs
Spinal Interbody Cage, we organized
a successful and significantly
oversubscribed share issue in
November, raising EUR 6 million of
funds. We were very pleased with
the strong response to the share
issue, which reflects the confidence
investors have in our vision and
strategy.
Long-waited CE mark received
We are extremely pleased that in
January 2025, we finally received
the CE mark approval for RemeOs
Trauma Screws, which not only allows
immediate product launch in Europe,
but also enables commercialization
in non-European countries that
recognize the CE mark. The CE mark
received includes all RemeOs designs,
and a broad indication set. The
approval will accelerate the collection
of real-world clinical evidence,
which will enable the expansion of
indications in the U.S., where the
current approval is more limited.
With the receipt of the CE mark
approval in 2025, we will focus on
the launch of the full line of the
RemeOs™ products to our customers
and existing network of European 
distributors. In the U.S., we wait for
new market approvals and maintain
a focus on creating market demand
with hospitals and surgeons as well
as adding additional distributor
partners for the U.S. infrastructure. To
keep up with the growth and future
potential, we will need to further
scale up our manufacturing capacity
and workforce. To accomplish these
plans and achieve our target of
generating positive cash flow from
operating activities by the end of
2027, we anticipate requiring new
funding in 2025. In summary, I am extremely proud of
our progress and excited about the
unique opportunities that lie ahead.
With the CE mark now received,
we are entering a new phase in
our growth strategy, and I have full
trust in our capabilities to deliver
the results. With the support of our
dedicated personnel, owners and
investors, we are well-positioned
to achieve our growth targets and
strengthen Bioretec’s position as
a leader in innovative medical
solutions.

