In 2024 we were able to take Bittium into profitable growth
path. Net sales grew 13.2% year-on-year and operating profit
was 10.1% of net sales. Cash flow improved significantly, and
order backlog increased to EUR 45.1 million year-on-year. The
growth was driven by the increased demand and product
deliveries in the Defense & Security Business Segment.
At the end of the year, we updated our strategy for the next
three years. The strategy aims to achieve profitable growth in
all Business Segments and we will emphasize even more
strongly on comprehensive customer focus and sales growth.
In addition, we will continue to systematically improve
profitability and efficiency.
The company's long-term financial goal is to grow by an
average of more than 10 percent per year and exceed an
operating profit level of 10 percent. Achieving these targets last
year proofs that we have succeeded in turning the company
onto a profitable growth path.
Net sales in Defense & Security Business Segment grew by
42.3 percent to EUR 51.6 million year-on-year. Operating result
was EUR 8.6 million representing 16.7 percent of net sales. This
year’s net sales development has been influenced by the
general growth in demand in the defense sector and the
increased number of product deliveries. The order backlog
improved significantly from the previous year.
Cooperation with the Finnish Defence Forces strengthened and
we signed a Partnership Agreement for the years 2025–2036.
The aim of the agreement is for the partnership to become a
solid part of the national defense, and for it to create
mechanisms for joint planning in normal conditions and states
of emergency. The agreement covers the tactical
communication systems and related products used by the
Finnish Defence Forces, as well as their maintenance and
further development. We are very proud of this trust shown to
us. Also, the serial deliveries of Bittium Tough SDR radios to the
Finnish Defence Forces began at the end of the year when the
Defence Forces placed an order for the radios for
approximately EUR 25.6 million. The order is related to the
additional purchase option included in the purchase
agreement signed on December 12, 2018.
Our strategy to grow in the international defense market has
progressed well during the past year. We delivered tactical
communication system products to our customers in Croatia,
Estonia and Austria, and cooperation with our new partners
operating in the global defense market progressed well.
Increased awareness of information security threats has
increased the demand for our security products. We developed
our SafeMove Mobile VPN software to be quantum secure.
Implementing quantum secure algorithms in security products
has become a hot topic as quantum computers continue to
develop.
The NATO Communications and Information Agency (NCIA)
has listed the Bittium Tough Mobile 2 C communications
solution in the NATO Information Assurance Product Catalogue
(NIAPC). The highly secure communications solution, approved
for use at the NATO Restricted level, is intended for
communications between government administrations and
authorities. Finland's NATO membership is believed to have a
positive impact on the demand for Bittium's defense and
authority products, especially in NATO countries.
Net sales in the Medical Business Segment decreased by 12.6
percent to EUR 19.3 million affected by the slow progress of the
regulatory medical device approvals slowing down the sales
growth. Operating result was EUR -0.9 million corresponding to
-4.5 percent of the net sales. Operating result was weakened
by EUR -0.7 million extra costs resulting from strengthening inhouse regulative expertise as well as from using external
expertise. Order backlog improved year-on-year.
A significant portion of the sales of ECG measuring devices
resulted from products sold to our US customer Boston
Scientific Cardiac Diagnostics. ECG measurement devices
were also sold to customers in Europe, Asia and Australia. For
Bittium Respiro, which is used to diagnose sleep apnea, we
have received the additional approvals required in certain
European countries for the sale of medical devices in addition
to the EU Medical Device Approval (MDR) and we are now
focusing on increasing sales in Europe in line with our strategy.
In connection with the strategy update, we announced that we
will launch an EMG device for measuring the electrical activity
of muscles. EMG measurement device, designed for remote
diagnostics, has already been in the company's product
portfolio before, and the product version presented now is
currently being used by our customer to identify Parkinson's disease. Other application area for the device could include
monitoring the rehabilitation progress and identifying various
muscle or movement disorders. We continue to explore the
market opportunities with interest and to find potential
partners to be able to provide a comprehensive solution.
Net sales in the Engineering Services Business Segment. Net
sales of the whole year 2024 decreased by 15.6 percent to EUR
14.3 million and operating result was EUR 1.2 million
representing 8.2 percent of net sales. The decline in net sales
was driven by the challenging market situation, especially in
the manufacturing industry, and by a lower number of R&D
projects than in the comparison period. The cost pressures in
the operating environment were also reflected in the order
backlog, which weakened slightly from the previous year.
Cooperation with our long-term key customers continued well
and despite the challenging market situation, we managed to
win new deals from, among others, the Telecom and
manufacturing industries. The versatility of our expertise is
reflected in the wide range of customer projects in different
industries.
As the number of R&D service projects was smaller, some of
the Business Segment's experts have been working flexibly on
customer projects in the Defense & Security Business Segment
throughout the year. The market situation for R&D services is
still challenging and we do not expect any changes in demand,
at least not during the first half of the year. Visibility in the R&D
service business is very short and fluctuations in the market
situation can cause significant changes on a short time frame.
Last year, we continued our work on sustainability and defined
our material sustainability matters in accordance with the new
European Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD).
We updated our sustainability strategy and calculated our
carbon footprint including scope 3 emissions from our value
chain for the first time. We committed to the European Green
Deal and set a target of net zero emissions by 2050 to fight
against the climate change. To this end, we put together a
transition plan towards a carbon-neutral future, which we will
update in the coming years as our plans become more specific.
This annual report contains the company’s first CSRDcompliant sustainability statement.
Our goals for the last year were to turn Bittium into a salesoriented product house and to improve profitability. We have
made very good progress towards the goals, and I am proud of
our achievements. I want to thank especially our talented
personnel, who have despite the tough changes stayed
committed making these results possible. I would also like to
thank our customers and other stakeholders for their trust and
good cooperation in the past year. The company is in a good
position to continue implementing its growth strategy,
focusing strongly on customer service, new customer sales,
and building the growth.
