The year 2024 was the most challenging in Boreo’s five-year history. Instead of allocating resources to growth
through acquisitions and organically, we focused on securing profitability, strengthening cash flow and managing
the Group’s balance sheet. The Finnish and the Baltics
markets, where our portfolio is concentrated, continued
to struggle and our performance was short of both our
own expectations and the potential of these markets.
At the beginning of 2024, we updated our strategy and
launched an action plan aimed at returning the company
to a growth path. As a result of the successfully implemented cost-saving measures and selected organic
growth investments, we were able to shift the course in
Q424, achieving revenue growth after several consecutive challenging quarters. I would like to extend my gratitude to our organization for battling through these hard
times. I am pleased that we adapted quickly to weak
market conditions and, despite the challenges, achieved
decent profitability and excellent cash flow.
Despite the recent headwinds, we remain excited about
the opportunities that lie ahead of us and are confident
in the firm’s business model and our ability to create value in the long term. The foundation of our decentralized
operating model is strong, and I am proud of the work
we have done in recent years. The acquisitions made
since autumn 2020 have generated reasonable returns
of approximately 15% which demonstrates our ability to
allocate capital effectively and to gradually shape the
portfolio toward improved quality.
While the firm’s current situation is not ideal, our longterm goals and the playbook to achieve our goals are
clear. As we view strong margins and high returns on capital as essential for a successful long-term owner of
entrepreneurial companies, we will work to improve the
quality of our portfolio and aim to acquire new businesses
with a strong financial profile and growth potential.
To achieve both, our short- and long-term goals, we will
remain focused in 2025 on executing the initiatives of our
Back to Growth -plan and long-term playbook. We are
confident that we are well positioned for a significant earnings improvement as market conditions improve.