We are CapMan –
we make things happen
Looking back at year 2024, I feel proud to see what we
have accomplished despite the continued uncertainty
and challenging market environment. We have taken
several significant steps to accelerate the growth of
our asset management business and executed our
long-term strategy as planned. The nature of our
business, private asset investing, is long-term focused
and therefore requires resilience and commitment
through different market cycles. The ability to seek
opportunities and create value also in the slower
transaction market is one of our key strengths.
We have achieved several significant strategic
successes during the year. The acquisition of Dasos
Capital was completed in March 2024, establishing
a new investment area CapMan Natural Capital. The
acquisition supports our strategy both from growth
and sustainability perspectives, increasing our assets
under management as well as opportunities in
sustainable investment. Complementing our real estate
and infrastructure investment areas with sustainable
timberland and natural capital investing positions
CapMan as a leader in unlisted real asset strategies in
the Nordics.
In October 2024, we took a significant step in
the execution of CapMan’s strategy by divesting
our service business CaPS for EUR 75 million. The
transaction releases capital and will allow allocating
more resources to accelerate the growth of our asset
management business, that is at the core of our
strategy. CaPS developed strongly as part of CapMan,
but with limited operational links to the rest of the
group, it was a natural time for the divestment. The
proceeds from the transaction will be used to grow the
asset management business, decrease interest bearing
debt, and enable strong dividend distribution.
Our growth strategy remains ambitious, with the
target to increase our assets under management to
EUR 10 billion. With a strong growth of 22% this year, exceeding the overall market growth rate, and current
assets under management at EUR 6.1 billion, we have
truly shown our resilience and ability to grow also in a
more challenging market environment.
Significant milestones in the journey towards
becoming the most responsible private assets
company in the Nordics
In 2024 it was especially the increased geopolitical
tension in several regions that caused uncertainty in
the operating environment. It is the fifth consecutive
year, since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020, in
which we have operated through continuous shocks to
both the economic and geopolitical environment, from
increasing inflation and interest rates, rocketing energy
prices, supply chain disruptions to increased political
tension in various regions. During times of uncertainty
like this, it is even more vital that we keep focused on
the long-term vision and continue to take systematic
and concrete steps towards creating a sustainable
future in a way that generates strong returns for our
investors over the cycles.
As a Nordic active and significant owner, we are
ideally positioned to drive change towards well
governed, environmentally and socially sustainable
businesses and assets. Our impact comes through
decisions, target-setting and finding opportunities to
create value from more sustainable operating models
and mitigating environmental and social challenges.
For us as a private assets manager and investor,
sustainability is about working together with the
stakeholders in our investment portfolio to help them
transform.
CapMan wants to show leadership in tackling
sustainability holistically, covering not only climate
but in all our investment areas work towards nature
positive approaches, that take into account the impact
on all planetary boundaries, while building equitable,
socially responsible businesses that respect human
rights across the value chain. When it comes to
emission reduction, we have made the commitment
within the Science-Based Targets initiative to achieve
net zero emissions by 2040, a decade ahead of the
global target. This year we have also set sustainability
performance targets that are linked to CapMan’s
Sustainability-Linked Bond Framework. The linked KPIs
cover over 90% of CapMan’s total emissions. This way sustainability performance is integrated in our funding,
and awareness around our commitment to sustainability goals is increased, as this offers an opportunity
to communicate about our work within sustainability
in a dedicated and frequent manner. We have also
introduced sustainability metrics as part of variable
renumeration, and part of the long-term share-based
incentives are determined following the achievement of
sustainability targets.
Successful fundraisings and investment activity
In the beginning of March, we closed the acquisition of
Dasos Capital and established Natural Capital as a new
investment area for CapMan. In April, we successfully
completed two flagship fundraisings. CapMan Nordic
Infrastructure II fund held its final close reaching EUR
375 million, which is a doubling in size compared
to the Infrastructure I fund. The investment strategy
is attractive especially for international institutional
investors, and around 70% of the capital in the fund
comes from outside the Nordics. CapMan Growth
Equity III fund held a first close above target size in
February, and a final close at hard cap of EUR 130
million in April. The fast fundraising and the high
quality of the investor base is a testament to the stellar
performance of the strategy. In total, we raised some
EUR 570 million of new capital during 2024. Our transaction activity across strategies has stayed
high with thirteen new investments and seven exits
during the year. Through the investments we do from
our funds and the value creation carried out in each
asset during our ownership we contribute to building
the society we want to see in the future. Our impact on
the Nordic economies and societies is significant, with
EUR 2.5 billion of aggregate turnover in 49 portfolio
companies and 13,900 employees, and with 222 properties and 10,400 tenants. In addition, CapMan
Natural Capital contributes to sustainable, low-carbon
development with responsibly managed 240,000
hectares of land In the annual GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) assessment our participating Real
Estate and Infrastructure funds improved their scores
and are among the top funds in their respective peer
groups. This is testament to our active ownership
approach to integrate financial and sustainability value
creation.
Strengthened focus on the asset management
business
Over the coming years CapMan seeks to significantly
grow earnings from its asset management business
by a combination of continued growth and improved
relative profitability, as the operations scale. As
demonstrated in 2024, this is achieved by increasing
the size of flagship funds, introducing new products to
the market, and through selective acquisitions.
The long-term outlook for the private assets market
remains strong and I look forward to elaborating on our
strategic ambitions further in our next Capital Markets
Day in March 2025. We are committed to continuing to
build value for the enrichment of society.


