Componenta grew through acquisitions and the market picked up towards the end of the year
“All in all, there was an upward trend in 2024. In the weak first quarter,
the development of volumes and the order book remained well below
expectations as a result of low demand and particularly because of the poor
market situation prevailing in the agricultural machinery industry across
Europe. Despite the low utilisation rates of our iron foundries in the first half
of the year, we ramped up serial production for new volume products, which
had a momentary negative impact on production efficiency and quality level.
Starting in the second quarter, our high-quality production capability has
improved through systematic measures, and our order book has begun to
grow slightly. In late spring 2024, we announced a significant acquisition in
the defence equipment industry, the impacts of which began to show in the
company’s operations during the remainder of the year.
The overall increase in net sales strengthened in the second half of the year,
when our total sales exceeded the level of the comparison period. We were
able to maintain good service capability across the Group in a challenging
operating environment throughout the year.
Market uncertainty prevailed throughout 2024
As a contract manufacturer, the level of customer demand and, consequently,
the utilisation rates of our production units have a direct impact on our
profitability. Through the low level of demand, the result for 2024 was
significantly affected by the general economic situation, characterised by
market uncertainties, a high level of inflation and high interest rates. During
the year, inflation stabilised at a moderate level, and the availability of raw
materials, other materials and components is currently at a good level. We
are actively monitoring market developments and ensuring that our own
supply chains continue to work effectively.
At the moment, there are no significant near-term risks in the availability
of electricity, but the general price level of electricity involves uncertainties.
Significant price fluctuations and their management have become part of
daily life in energy-intensive industries.
Exceptional labour market disruptions had a negative impact on our and
our customers’ financial performance repeatedly during the year. The direct
impacts were particularly pronounced in the first half of the year and in
the last quarter as a result of strikes and various measures restricting our
operations. Our liquidity remained good throughout the year.
The first year of the 3-year strategy period
The end of 2024 also marked the end of the first year of the threeyear period of our updated strategy. The measures have progressed in
accordance with our plans. We have strengthened our customer knowledge
throughout the organisation and have cooperated more closely, taking
customer needs into account in component manufacturing design, for example. We have also increased the role of sustainability as one of our
competitive advantages and prepared for regulatory changes and the resulting
needs, and for our first CSRD report. Our sustainability work continues to focus
on environmental considerations, safety at work and development needs that
are important for the well-being of our personnel. We work to be an accidentfree workplace, where diversity, non-discrimination and equality are an
important part of the everyday corporate culture. Our employees’ competence,
expertise, motivation and continuous development are essential and critical
factors for us as a contract manufacturer, and we will continue to invest in
these aspects.
In addition to organic growth, one of our strategic growth drivers is to grow
through acquisitions, and related to this, we announced an acquisition in
July 2024. With the acquisition, our offering has been complemented by
the manufacturing of demanding welded structures and strong technical
expertise in welding. In the last quarter, we integrated these operations into
Componenta and started our synergistic development work.
The company’s offering meets customers’
needs even better than before
With our operational development and investments, we want to continue
to guarantee our customers a high level of delivery reliability and product
and service quality. Our exceptionally comprehensive offering has also been
further expanded with the manufacturing capability of demanding welded
structures. We now offer our customers a comprehensive range of sustainably
manufactured castings, machining, metal sheet cutting, pipe products, welded
structures and forged blanks from our production units in Finland. We also
leverage the capabilities of our subcontractor network in our overall offering.
Towards growth
For the majority of our customers, actual growth prospects have moved
cautiously optimistically into 2025. As a contract
manufacturer, we will continue to actively
pursue measures to strengthen our market
position. Accordingly, we are working to be the
preferred sustainable total supplier for our
customers, with a wide offering.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank
our employees for their commitment and
strong input during the year, and our
customers, suppliers and other
stakeholders for their valued
cooperation and trust. We are off to a
good start in 2025.