I am very pleased and proud of our company’s achievements
in 2024. We improved our performance in all key performance
indicators compared to the reference period. The
execution of our profitable growth strategy was very successful
in a generally difficult market environment for IT services
companies, and we achieved growth of nearly 10% and an
adjusted EBITDA of EUR 1 million. EBIT was also clearly positive
for the full year and cash flow was clearly positive in the
second half of the year.
I am particularly pleased with the growth in the Continuous
Services business, which accelerated towards the end of the
year to 18.9% in the fourth quarter and 13.5% for the full year.
In line with our target, Continuous Services revenue accounted
for almost 2/3 of total revenue in the fourth quarter.
The major Healthcare customer projects in new customer
accounts progressed well and we grew our Healthcare business,
and our team of industry experts as planned. Healthcare
is the company’s key growth area, and we successfully grew
our social and healthcare business in all our markets.
On 3 December 2024, we announced the strategy execution
focus areas set by the Board of Directors with the aim of accelerating
profitable growth towards the end of the strategy period
2024-2026.
The first of the strategy execution cornerstones is to revolutionize
the way large organizations do knowledge work: we
are expanding our continuous services business and Outsmart
automation platform with Enterprise AI Agents by creating
unique, measurable customer value to knowledge work
automatization. This work was already progressing rapidly
during the autumn, particularly in the insurance sector. We
are in the process of developing autonomous AI agents to
independently handle certain sets of work tasks.
The second strategy execution cornerstone relates to the
transformation of our Outsmart automation services’ core
business where we maximize customer benefits from our
productized service offering. Simultaneously we use AI in
everything we do to improve the productivity of our own
work.
As a third cornerstone, we aim to be the market leader in care
pathway solutions for social and healthcare services: We focus
on productized automation solutions for care and customer
pathways. The productization of service solutions for
long care pathways is progressing well. We see significant
opportunities in this area, both to radically increase the productivity
of healthcare professionals and to improve patient
safety and patient experience.
We also announced that the fourth cornerstone of our strategy
is to accelerate growth through acquisitions: we are actively
seeking opportunities for acquisitions that support our
profitable growth strategy. This work is also progressing as
planned.
The company clearly raised its financial targets to achieve
its profitable growth strategy by the end of 2026. This will be
made possible by a very good performance in 2024. I would
like to thank our staff, our partners and our customers for
their cooperation and trust in our company and our services. I
strongly believe that we offer the market a truly unique, revolutionary
approach to how knowledge work will be done and
automated in large organizations in the future. This gives us a
good chance of success also in 2025.”