The 2024 financial year was very much about
stabilisation and efficiency improvements. During
the year, Duell focused on strengthening its financial
position, improving profitability, optimising the brand
portfolio, streamlining operations, developing key
supplier relationships and investing in e-commerce
capabilities.
For the 2024 financial year, net sales increased by
5% to EUR 125 million and adjusted EBITA increased
by 34% to EUR 6.2 million. Our strategic focus on
the central European market progressed well. As a
result, we managed to grow business volumes in a still
somewhat uncertain market situation. This strategic
focus has served us particularly well at this moment in
time where the Nordic market demand remains soft.
Our largest central European operations are in France
and the UK, but Benelux countries and Germany are
also important regions in our growth equation.
In the Nordics, motorcycle registrations declined,
which is an indicator of lower market demand for
motorcycle parts and accessories. On the other
hand, we had a good demand for bicycle parts and
accessories in the Nordic market, where we are known
for having top brands, and a well working logistics
setup for customers in Finland, Sweden and Norway.
Our program focused on profitability improvements,
and our application of a wide array of initiatives
progressed well throughout the year, and reached
the point where we could continue the activities with
them embedded into operational processes. Apart
from the results, I also consider this as a milestone
in terms of us being able to develop our ability to
identify opportunities, convert actions, and to execute
decisions, into tangible results. An important capability
in every high performing organisation, I believe.
In June 2024, a new operating model was introduced.
The aim of this model is to improve efficiency with
a clearer market focus, to drive growth and develop
strategic partnerships. The new model will also enable
more effective integration at Group level to accelerate
organic growth. In addition, the model will provide a
stronger emphasis on purchasing operations and the
development of the brand portfolio.
The financial position of the company significantly
improved during the year. The additional capital raised
through the rights issue in January was the major
step, but also the efforts made to improve profitability
were important factors in our work to reach a more
stable situation. We also progressed with inventory
level optimisations and the inventory turnover rate
is improving in the right direction. We are gradually
shifting to more data driven decision-making regarding
assortment and inventory levels. Furthermore, we continued to define and develop our
corporate responsibility framework to comply with the
regulations imposed on listed companies to prepare
the company to fulfil the CSRD reporting in 2026. We
published the Group’s Code of Conduct, implemented
a Whistleblowing channel, and focused on defining the
EU taxonomy.
Many of the above-mentioned elements will remain on
our agenda in the current financial year, and I would
like to thank the entire Duell organisation for their
accomplishments during financial year 2023–2024.
We expect the demand over the next 12
months to be slightly more favourable,
but there may be variations between
product categories. Despite
market uncertainties, our aim
is to continue improving our
performance during the
2025 fiscal year.
I would like to warmly thank
our employees, customers,
suppliers, shareholders, and
other stakeholders for 2024,
and I look forward to 2025.