"The volumes in the insulation market have for a long time been clearly below the long-term average
level. Based on various indicators, the situation in the insulation market is not expected to improve
significantly in early 2025. We have cut our costs and been active in sales and marketing. As a result, our
earnings are back on a growth path. In 2024, net sales remained flat. Strong export growth compensated
for weak demand in the domestic market. In Finland, we succeeded in continuing on a growth path in the
Single-family house renovation concept. The volume of new construction remains at a very low level.
However, there are increasing signs that the volume of new construction will start to grow this year. If
realized, this is likely to be reflected in improved demand in the insulation market only in the second half
of this year.
In the last quarter of the year, our net sales increased by 10.0% year-on-year, especially due to the
growth in exports. Our EBITDA in euros improved by 52.5% year-on-year, and the EBITDA margin
increased from 9.5% to 13.2%. This is a good performance from our team in a difficult operating
environment.
At the end of the year, we announced an offer to acquire two Swedish companies, Isoleringslandslaget
AB and Isoleringslandslaget Försäljning AB. Isoleringslandslaget is a sales and installation company for
insulation products and a long-standing EcoUp customer, to whom we have sold Ekovilla insulation since
2018. The closing of the acquisitions took place on 1 January 2025. The Swedish insulation market is
significantly larger than Finland's, and our market share there is lower. Together with our committed local
management, we intend to grow our Swedish sales and installation business and increase our exports
there from our production facilities in Finland.
Our Technology business is in the commercialization phase.
At our own plant in Tarvasjoki, we can manufacture concretelike products, carry out industrial testing and demonstrate the
operation of our WasteX line in practice. In the past quarter,
we delivered carbon-neutral Cubecos to the Isku Areena and
a material storage made of low-carbon building blocks to the
city of Lieto. During 2025, we expect the first commercialscale contracts in the Technology business. This would
provide good prerequisites to achieve our financial target for
technology in 2026, i.e. a positive EBITDA.
I am pleased that our work and actions in recent years have
already been reflected as improved profitability for three
consecutive quarters compared to the corresponding period
of the previous year. I expect growing EBITDA for 2025
compared to the financial year now ended. We are wellprepared, when the market situation starts to recover at some
point.” 