“Our strategy is moving forward in a planned way in
the unfavourable market situation. During the year, we
have achieved the savings in line with our profitability
programme and transformed our operating models.
Good progress was made in implementing our AIdriven ERP system in Staffing Services. Our EBIT does
not yet satisfy us.
Our revenue was EUR 41.9 million (52.1) in the last quarter
and EUR 174.1 million (219.0) in January-December. The
main reason for the decline in revenue was sluggish
demand in Staffing Services.
Revenue in Staffing Services fell by 19 % in OctoberDecember compared to the same period last year. In
January-December, revenue contracted to EUR 145.5
million (188.3). In the last quarter, demand remained
subdued in the construction, manufacturing and trade
sectors. In the Horeca sector, our volumes were at a
moderate level thanks to excellent customer work and
security of supply. We performed well relative to the market
in the capital area.
In the Professional Services business area, revenue in the
last quarter was EUR 7.7 million (9.6). The fall in revenue
is due in particular to weaker demand for employment
services at the turning point of the public administration's
TE services reform. Demand for headhunting and personal
assessment services has also been weak. The last quarter
was a good one for research services, with a high order
book in being repatriated into revenue.
Our EBIT for the last quarter was EUR 0.1 million (-0.7);
0.3% of revenue (-1.3%). EBIT for January-December was
EUR 2.3 million (4.0); 1.3% of revenue (1.8%) including
total one-time costs of EUR 2.3 million (3.9). The decline in
EBIT was driven by the fall in revenue. We are pleased
with the relative sales margin, which remained at the level
of the comparison period. Our profitability programme and
working capital improvements progressed well and
significantly reduced our cost and debt levels. We are
pleased with the positive development of cash flow.
We reformed our operating models
The target of transforming our operating models is to take
Eezy to new level of productivity and profitability. The most
impactful part of this is the introduction of AI-assisted
technology. The new system went into limited production in
April and was extended in November.
We outsourced 30 finance and HR positions to our partner
and will continue to automate these processes going
forward into 2025 during a continuous development
phase.
Negotiations for vacant office space are still ongoing in a
challenging office market.
In autumn 2023, we launched a profitability programme
with a target of EUR 3 million savings. These savings are
fully reflected in lower costs. In addition, we estimate that
the operational model renewal measures launched in
summer 2024 will bring us annual cost savings of around
EUR 2.8 million. Savings of EUR 0.8 million were achieved
in the last quarter. We estimate to reach the full benefits of
the technology upgrade in the second half of 2025.
Our priority for 2025 is in customer work
We go into 2025 with enthusiasm. The growth outlook for
the economy is still uncertain, but with interest rates
coming down, the economy is expected to pick up.
We target to grow faster than the market with the
measures mentioned below.
In line with our strategy, we have strengthened our
commercial organisation by combining our customer and
sales forces into one team. Our customers are very
satisfied with our services, with an NPS at an excellent
level. In addition to our existing customers, we are looking
for growth from new industries and customers. We have
decided to strengthen our network of franchise
entrepreneurs in smaller cities. With our broader franchise
network, we will seek stronger growth from local as well as
national clients. This will also improve the efficiency of
group operational management.
From February 2025, the majority of our customers and
staffed employees are covered by the new technology
solution. The new digital operating model will significantly
improve our efficiency.
We are negotiating with financers to stabilize the
company's financial position. We expect the negotiations to
reach a conclusion during spring 2025. 
We are going to reach our strategic targets through
focusing on growth, performance improvement and an
excellent Eezy employee experience and culture. I would
like to thank our employees, customers and partners for
the good cooperation in 2024. Together, we will strive for a
successful 2025.”