For Elecster, year 2024 was challenging but at the same
time rewarding. All the set financial targets were not
achieved but - taking into account the global uncertainty
hampering it - we can however be quite happy with the result
of year 2024.
The world’s uncertainty about the future is a factor affecting
in many ways the decision-making of our customers and
their possibilities to invest, as well as any other companies
like Elecster, manufacturing investment commodities. For
Elecster, the difficulty factor is even higher because our main
markets are in countries where there are clearly less capital
available compared to the developed Western markets.
Conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza, and the US presidential
election in November increased the economic uncertainty
across the world, making financiers more cautious.
Availability and cost of money are often the key factors
affecting our customers’ investment decisions. Along with the
poor availability of investment money, foreign exchange risks
are causing headache to our customers. During such
uncertain times, the local currencies in the developing
countries important for Elecster tend to weaken against the
euro and US dollar. In case the invoicing currency is
depreciating by two-digit percent against the investment
currency, any previous investment appraisals are
undermined. In many of our market areas, the cost of money
is completely different from what we are used to in the quite
stable European financial markets. In 2024, we delivered a
milk processing and packaging line to Zimbabwe, where the
central bank reference interest rate was as high as 35%. In
Argentine whereto we have delivered several lines, the
interest rate is almost on the same level.
Even though last year was a period of increased global
uncertainty, we can be quite pleased with the fact that,
despite of the difficult conditions our machine sales grew
higher than in the reference period and we managed to close
machine deals in all our main market areas. In South
America we gained two new reference countries, Uruguay
and Ecuador. In the light of our history, a new reference in a
new country is expected to lead to more deals in future.
During the last quarter of 2024, our machinery sales order
books developed rather positively so we can start the year
2025 with piece of mind.
With the year 2024 sales performance of packaging
materials, we by no means can be satisfied. While our film
factory in Finland increased their sales volume, the sales of
our Kenyan and Russian factories remained clearly below
the volumes achieved in the reference period. Boosting the
packaging material sales volumes will thus be one of our
most important targets for year 2025.
I want to express my thanks to all our stakeholders for the
past year 2024 and wish success for the year 2025. Elecster
starts the new year of 2025 with positive expectations. The
seas of the world will still be stormy, but I strongly believe
that with the Elecster group personnel’s experience and
know-how we succeed to sail through difficult times. 