Elisa recorded strong performance in 2024, even though the economic
environment turned out to be more challenging than anticipated and the
expected turnaround in growth shifted to 2025. We took major leaps in terms
of international operations and AI. Our customer satisfaction rose to a record
level, and long-term sustainability efforts received international recognition. 

Geopolitical uncertainty and soft macroeconomic
development continued in 2024, and the general economic
uncertainty delayed corporate investment decisions. In the
Finnish market, the competitive environment was fierce in
both mobile and fixed networks.
In a challenging operating environment, we were still able
to deliver a strong financial result. Elisa’s revenue increased
by 0.5 per cent year-on-year to EUR 2,191 million. Revenue
was impacted by, for example, the divestment of the Videra
business and ending the agreement with Viaplay.
Comparable EBITDA improved by 3.6 per cent to a record
EUR 783 million as a result of higher mobile service revenue
and efficiency measures. Comparable earnings per share
was EUR 2.35.
The strong financial performance has enabled Elisa to pay
a growing dividend for the last ten years. Elisa’s Board of
Directors proposes to the 2025 Annual General Meeting a
dividend of EUR 2.35 per share.
Strong focus on 5G and fiber
During the year, 5G reached every municipality in Finland,
just six years after our 5G network opened. Our 5G network
now covers 96 per cent of the population in Finland and
78 per cent in Estonia.
We were also the first provider to make standalone 5G
network services available to Finns through our 5G+ voice
subscriptions and Omakaista broadband subscriptions.
Research shows that we have the most-satisfied 5G customers
in the country. Customers especially appreciate the higher
quality and service level of the standalone 5G network, as
well as the lower energy consumption of their devices.
We continued to invest heavily in our fiber network, building
more than ever. Since the summer, we have been building
the network using Nokia’s fiber optic technology, which was
also involved in the 100 Gbit/s speed record we set at the
end of the year. The connection speeds offered to customers
will increase gradually over the next few years, and for future
speeds, we introduced the world’s first 800 Gbit/s coherent
backbone connection.
In addition to building our own network, we expanded the
availability of fiber during the year by acquiring fiber optic
networks in the North Karelia and Kuusamo regions. In a
competitive market, customers considering fiber for their 
Internet connection appreciate Elisa as a Finnish operator,
as well as our reliability and clear contract models.
Elisa plays a key role in safeguarding cyber security and
critical infrastructure in Finland and Estonia. In addition
to providing reliable, high-speed connections, we secure
the digital environment in many ways. As a demonstration
of resilience, damage to two submarine data cables in the
Gulf of Finland during Christmas did not interfere with
Elisa’s telecommunications services, and the damaged
cables were quickly repaired.
Elisa’s NPS score measuring customer satisfaction rose to a
record level of 31.1 (28.1 in 2023).
Making use of AI and automation
Elisa has invested heavily in AI-based automation
development for our services. Over the past ten years,
Elisa has become a true pioneer in the industry. We offer
automation solutions for managing networks, cybersecurity
services and industrial supply chains.
In our own operations, we introduced AI more extensively
during the year in order to improve efficiency in our
processes, especially in sales and customer service. We
also utilise automation to prevent scam calls and messages.
Our award-winning proprietary solution for blocking scam
calls has also been adopted by the Finnish Transport and
Communications Agency (Traficom) as the foundation for
its national solution.
In our Corporate Customers business, we have taken
the lead in AI-based IT services. Elisa is also Finland’s
leading provider of mobile services for companies. We
strengthened our position as a partner in digitalising
corporate processes by acquiring a majority shareholding
in Moontalk Oy, which has strong application development
expertise.
Consumer services are expanding
Elisa is strongly involved in the everyday lives of
consumers. Solutions for the home is one of our growth
areas. We launched the Elisa Kotiakku home energy
storage service, which smooths out spikes in electricity spot
prices and stores electricity generated by solar panels.
We also celebrated the tenth anniversary of Elisa Viihde
original series. We have produced more than 40 original
series so far, including several award-winners. Elisa
Viihde original series have also been financed and sold
internationally to more than 80 countries in Europe, North
America and Asia.
We grew internationally
During 2024, we saw a leap in growth in our international
business operations through both organic growth and
acquisitions.
Through acquisitions, we accelerated our Elisa IndustrIQ
business by acquiring Romaric in the United States and
Leanware in Finland. The acquisition of the Italian industrial
software supplier sedApta Group strengthens our industrial
automation software offering and Elisa IndustrIQ’s position
in the global manufacturing industry customer base.
Elisa’s Distributed Energy Storage (DES) solution supports
the energy transition and has attracted international
interest. The solution was adopted by the communication
infrastructure provider DNA Tower Finland and the mobile
operator Ålcom in the Åland Islands.
One of the world’s most sustainable companies
At Elisa, sustainability means responsible value creation
for people, the environment and society. Sustainability is
part of our strategy and our mission: a sustainable future
through digitalisation. We are committed to the UN Global
Compact and to achieving Net Zero emissions by 2040.
In particular, we take responsibility for the digital safety and
wellbeing of children and young people. In cooperation
with the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, we
organised Finland’s largest digital school, attended by
more than 70,000 lower secondary school students.
We were the first company in Finland to introduce an
age recommendation that smartphones should not be
purchased for children aged under nine.
Our long-term sustainability work was also reflected in
international assessments during the year. Elisa was ranked
among the world’s 100 most sustainable companies by
both Time Magazine and Statista, and in the Corporate
Knights Global 100 ranking.
International Elisa shares common values
Now increasingly international, Elisa employs thousands of
professionals in more than 20 countries. Together, we have
updated our values, and I look forward to building an even
stronger and more united Elisa community together.
I would like to thank everyone at Elisa for their strong
performance, innovation and work for our customers. We
are strongly committed to profitable growth and customer
value creation through technology leadership, and to the
continuous improvement of productivity and quality.
I would also like to thank our international customer base
and our partners, shareholders and other stakeholders for
believing that Elisa is worthy of their trust. 
