The year 2024 was a time of significant change for
us. Our financial performance turned positive, and
our revenue grew for the second consecutive year by
46 %, reaching EUR 28.7 million (EUR 19.7 million). The
Group’s EBITDA was EUR 5.8 million (-EUR 0.7 million),
representing 20 % of revenue, and our net result was
positive. The EBITDA of the Pampalo production segment
was EUR 10.3 million (EUR 3.3 million), or 36 % (17%) of
revenue. The unit cost per ounce excluding investments
was EUR 1,281/ounce (EUR 1,278/ounce). The change has
been immense, and the journey to this point has been
eventful. Two years ago, the Endomines Group’s EBITDA
was -EUR 6.4 million, and our net result was -EUR 17.5
million in the red. I am very pleased with the strong results
and the transformation achieved in all areas of
our business.
From 2022 to 2024, we focused on laying the foundation for
our business. We are now entering a new phase, where our
focus is on bringing new areas into production and growing
the company to a significantly larger scale. Our long-term
goal is to increase our production level from the current
annual production of over 14,300 ounces to 70,000–100,000
ounces, estimated in the year 2030. In this new phase,
we will focus on the technical and economic planning of
a new production facility and the actions required by the
permitting processes. At the same time, we will continue
to develop our current production and conduct extensive
exploration to increase gold resources.
In 2024, our exploration efforts focused on the Southern
and Northern Gold Lines. We achieved excellent results
both in the Kuittila-Korvilansuo axis in the south and
in Kartitsa in the north. In Kuittila, our gold resources
increased by 98 % as a result of exploration, and in
Korvilansuo by 107 %. The gold resources of the Southern
Gold Line have grown by 200,000 ounces in two years; the
total resource of the area is now 270,000 ounces.
In addition to gold, high concentrations of tungsten and
molybdenum were also found in the Kuittila area. Tungsten
is one of the 14 critical raw materials of the European
Union, and Endomines intends to apply for the status of a
critical minerals producer in 2025. This status could open
opportunities for new funding channels and an accelerated
permitting process. The utilization of critical minerals
alongside gold is a new strategic focus area for us and part
of the company’s ongoing renewal.
In 2024, we also conducted nature surveys and an
environmental impact assessment program in the Southern
Gold Line area. We plan to submit the program for review
in the spring of 2025. According to our estimate, the
environmental permit decision could be realized by 2028.
The Kartitsa area in the northern part of the Karelian
Gold Line is a relatively new exploration target for us.
We conducted the first extensive exploration drilling in
Kartitsa in the summer and autumn of 2024. We identified
a high-grade gold deposit in the area, which appears to
be extensive and significant in scale. In 2025, our strategic
exploration will focus on Kartitsa and the Southern Gold Line
in Kuittila and Korvilansuo. Additionally, we will conduct the
first research drillings in the Ukkolanvaara area. In 2024, we
collected bedrock samples in the area, which indicate high
gold potential in this yet unexplored area.
We still own the rights to seven gold deposits in the United
States. The operations in the United States are not part of
our strategic focus areas, and a simpler company structure
would bring us significant cost savings. We continue to
actively negotiate partnerships in the United States and
aim to find a solution as quickly as possible. The direct
operational impact of the United States on Endomines’
EBITDA in 2024 was approximately MEUR -0.7 million
(MEUR -1.0).
Sustainability is a core part of Endomines’ strategy and
firmly at the heart of our operations. We strive to be a
partner that acts responsibly, respects biodiversity, keeps
its promises, and treats people well. We aim to be a clear
leader in setting sustainability goals and implementing
actions. In 2024, we published our first sustainability
report. Additionally, we conducted a Double Materiality
Assessment, which served as the basis for updating our
sustainability program. The focus of our new sustainability
program includes carbon-free gold, clean water, preserving
biodiversity, employee safety and well-being, local
community trust, and promoting ethical practices in
governance. Our goal is to reflect on our operations with
pride for years to come.
We enter 2025 with a positive outlook. We believe in the
benefits of growing production and a in the strong gold
market. The price of gold is particularly influenced by
global geopolitical uncertainty. Unfortunately, we live in
a world where the rivalry between superpowers leads to
ongoing uncertainty. The future price outlook for gold is very
positive, and its price is currently significantly higher than
the average price of USD 2402/ounce in 2024.
I want to thank our employees for their excellent work.
I also want to thank our shareholders, partners, and all
stakeholders for the incredible journey that enabled the
company’s positive turnaround in 2024. We have achieved
a lot. However, the journey is not over – we will continue at
the same speed towards 2026.