During the past year, we delivered good growth in Business Insight and new services and successfully completed
our EUR 10 million efficiency program. Although the consumer credit market was challenging in Sweden and
Finland, we were able to maintain solid profitability and cash flow. We continued to execute our strategy by
launching and commercializing new innovative services and enhancing capabilities in artificial intelligence,
customer channels, distribution and product development, all aimed at increasing customer value and growth.
New value-adding services for our customers
In 2024, we launched several new innovative
services within fraud prevention, revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2) for open banking, compliance, real estate and environmental, social and governance (ESG) climate risk.
Fraud is an increasing societal problem across
Nordics, especially in Sweden. To address the
growing need for data-driven fraud prevention
solutions, we launched a new anti-fraud score
for the Swedish market. The service has generated strong interest, culminating in signing of
the first significant deal in the fourth quarter in
Sweden.
The demand for compliance services continues to grow rapidly and our sales in compliance increased by nearly double digits. We
expanded our unique Nordic compliance offering during the year, as we launched politically
exposed person (PEP) and sanction list services
in Sweden and Norway.
Improved competitiveness in both business
areas
Business Insight continued to grow in 2024. We
successfully transitioned to enhanced subscription service packages for small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) customers in Finland, which boosted our growth and lowered
customer churn. In Sweden, we advanced our
premium production platform modernization
and moved to the new www.allabolag.se online
site. These enable us to better serve our SME
customers and drive better scale, faster timeto-market and improved profitability. Moreover,
both compliance and real estate information
demonstrated very good growth, supported by
new services.
Consumer Insight suffered from weakened
demand for consumer credit information services especially in Sweden, and volumes were
down also in Finland. Despite this, we were
able to grow in new customer verticals, such
as e-commerce and telecom, and in customers outside the loan broker segment in Sweden.
We also successfully integrated our credit information services with the Finnish government’s
new positive credit register. In Sweden, new
regulations aimed at preventing over-indebtedness were approved by the government.
While these measures will slow the recovery of
the Swedish consumer credit market in 2025,
they also present opportunities for us to invest
in our technology and improve service quality.
Growth in Business Insight and strong free
cash flow
Our 2024 net sales amounted to EUR 150,4 million (EUR 155,9 million). The decline was driven
by the weak demand for consumer credit information services in Sweden and Finland. However, we continued to see good growth in the
Business Insight in Finland, Norway and Denmark, and the share of net sales from new services improved to 15,6 percent (12,2 percent).
Adjusted EBITDA was EUR 52,0 million (EUR 57,1
million), resulting in an Adjusted EBITDA margin
of 34,6 percent (36,6 percent). The successful
completion of the Efficiency Program helped
to partially offset the negative impacts from
declining high-margin consumer credit information sales and increased data acquisition costs. Our free cash flow continued to be
strong at EUR 30,7 million (EUR 32,0 million),
allowing attractive capital allocation.
Sustainability continues to be at the core of
everything we do
Enento’s high-quality data and services help
companies and entities in making sustainable
decisions. We continued ESG product development in 2024 and launched, for example,
a new ESG-integrated property climate risk
service in Sweden. We expect that the need
for our climate risk and other ESG services will
increase in the future as credit and business
decision-making processes are expected to
incorporate ESG matters more comprehensively.
In our own operations, sustainability means
that we are a responsible partner to our customers and suppliers, an empowering and sustainable workplace and focus on decreasing
our own environmental footprint. We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint
and achieving net zero emissions by 2030 in
line with our strategy. The carbon footprint of
our own operations is low. The most significant environmental impacts arise from Scope
3 emissions, especially purchased goods and
services, which represent around 98 percent of
our total location-based CO2
e emissions.
We continued to invest in our people and
were very satisfied to see that our Employee
Engagement index improved and employee
turnover decreased. This highlights the success
of our initiatives aimed at retaining our talented employees, strong team spirit and good
leadership within our organization. Moreover,
we continue to invest in customer experience
to improve customer satisfaction, retention and
business performance. Enhancing data-driven
decision making is a priority, and we will transition to a new customer feedback insight tool.
We have prepared our voluntarily sustainability
review in this report with reference to the principles of the European Sustainability Reporting
Standards (ESRS). Although the report does not
yet meet the CSRD requirements, we have laid
a solid foundation for our future sustainability
direction that also goes beyond reporting.
Looking ahead: balance of driving growth,
efficiency and long-term competitiveness
Looking ahead to 2025, we have many opportunities while our operating environment
remains mixed. Demand for business information services remains good, but Swedish consumer credit information business faces uncertainty due to the new regulatory developments
and structural changes. We remain focused on
maintaining profitability and strengthening free
cash flow through disciplined cost control, while
investing in future competitiveness and growth
opportunities. We expect our net sales to be in
the range of EUR 150-156 million and Adjusted
EBITDA in the range of EUR 50-55 million.
Maintaining our position as the market leader
in the core credit and business information
services remains a priority, while we focus on
strategic growth in new services and expanding market penetration in new verticals and
mid-sized customer segments, particularly
in Sweden and Norway. We will also continue to transform our SME business in Sweden
and addressing the structural changes in the
Swedish consumer credit market with targeted
actions.
I want to thank our customers, employees,
partners and shareholders for good collaboration throughout 2024. I am confident that our
strong team and focused strategy execution
will support our leading position in the Nordics
and ambition to deliver profitable growth as
market conditions improve.