Enersense’s
turnaround
proceeded
in 2024
Enersense is a major operator in the development,
construction and maintenance of critical infrastructure for society. In 2024, we improved the
profitability of our core businesses, operating
cash flow, customer satisfaction and
occupational safety, and reduced climate
emissions from our own operations
WORK SAFETY IS OF PRIMARY IMPORTANCE to us and our customers. Our investment in proactive safety at work paid off, with a
34% reduction in the frequency of lost time injuries in 2024.
We work towards enabling the green energy transition. We are
committed to reducing our own and our value chain’s greenhouse
gas emissions in line with the Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi). In 2024, emissions from our own operations reduced by
33% and in 2025, we will set a target for our overall emissions. 
Focus on core business improved
profitability and operational cash flow
in the second half of the year.
2024 showed that our customer relationships are on solid ground.
Customer satisfaction increased across all segments and we built
several new customer relationships. We are ready to develop an
even broader service packages, listening to our customers’ wishes.
A new direction taken in the summer
2024 was a special year for Enersense. In the early part of the year,
problems with individual projects piled up and a change of direction
became necessary. In June, the Board of Directors redefined the
focus of our strategy and launched a strategic assessment of three
of our businesses. I joined the team in the autumn with the aim to
strengthen the balance sheet and improve profitability.
Two of the three strategic assessments were completed in early
2025. We sold the wind and solar power project development
business to Fortum and decided to ramp down our zero-emission
transport solutions business.
The third strategic assessment, related to the Marine and
Offshore Unit, is still ongoing. Our expertise in Mäntyluoto is
unique both for offshore wind power and other arctic marine
industries, such as icebreaker manufacturing. These sectors
are now evolving rapidly, so we will continue the assessment
to ensure the best possible outcome. Improved profitability in the second half of the year
Starting in the summer, we stabilised our business and built
the foundations for sustainable growth. At the same time, we
reviewed the condition of our businesses and critically assessed
balance sheet values. In the second and fourth quarters, this led
to significant write-downs, which were necessary for the longterm development of our core business.
The clear focus on the core business was reflected in improved
profitability and operational cash flow in the second half of the
year. I am particularly pleased with our Connectivity segment,
which expanded its customer base and almost doubled its
EBITDA. The Power segment’s core business developed positively,
and we grew profitably in the substation business in Finland. In
the Industry segment, we completed major projects such as the
piping and steel structures for Finland’s first green hydrogen plant
for P2X Solutions.
Building a new Enersense
In line with the strategic direction taken in summer 2024, we will
focus on green energy transition project and service operations in
our Power, Industry and Connectivity segments. We are updating
our strategy to build sustainable growth in our core businesses.
We will provide more details on our new strategy by summer 2025.
To fund our strategic journey, we launched a Value Uplift
program at the end of 2024 to improve efficiency and support
profitable growth. We plan to gradually renew our procurement
performance, evaluate our fixed costs and resources to support
the implementation of the strategy as well as improve our
commercial management. We are targeting for an annual profit
improvement of around EUR 5 million from the second half of
2026 onwards, and we expect the positive profit impact to
become gradually visible from the beginning of 2026.
I would like to thank all Enersense’s employees for their
commitment to the transformation of the company and for
a job well done in 2024. I would also like to acknowledge our
customers, shareholders and other partners for their trust and
rewarding cooperation. I look forward to continuing our journey
together.