eQ’s result for the financial period fell in the challenging operating environment.
The net revenue of the Group during the financial period was EUR 65.6 million
and the operating profit was EUR 34.5 million. Operating profit fell by 13 per
cent from the previous year. Profit for the financial period was EUR 27.4 million
and earnings per share 66 cents. The Group’s cost/income ratio remained at an
excellent level of 47.4%.
Last year, eQ Asset Management’s net revenue fell by 13% and operating profit
by 19% to EUR 33.7 million. Real estate asset management fees fell, while
traditional and Private Equity asset management fee income rose. The cost/
income ratio for the asset management segment was 42.3%. Advium’s net
turnover increased by 34% from the previous year and amounted to EUR 5.3
million. The operating profit was EUR 1.5 million compared to EUR 0.7 million in
the previous year. The business operations of the Investments segment consist
of private equity and real estate fund investments made from eQ Group’s own
balance sheet. The Investment segment’s result rose from 2023. The segment’s
operating profit was EUR 1.1 million compared to a loss of EUR 0.6 million in
the previous year.
eQ Asset Management is one of the leading
institutional asset managers in Finland
According to the survey SFR conducted last year, eQ is the second most used
institutional asset manager in Finland. 68% of respondents say they use eQ
services. eQ’s usage increased in the 2024 survey. In alternative investments
- real estate and private equity in eQ’s case - eQ was by far the most used
asset manager. eQ’s quality rating declined in 2024, which the study attributes
primarily to weaker investment returns in the real estate segment. Our goal is
to rise back to the forefront of quality. Every year, SFR interviews around 100 of
the largest Finnish institutional investors.
As for sales, the year 2024 was good in private equity asset management.
In 2024, Private Equity funds were raised to the eQ PE XVI North fund
investing in Northern Europe and the eQ PE SF V and eQ VC II funds. We raised
over EUR 360 million in these three funds, which is an excellent result. In
addition, returns on eQ PE funds remained excellent. eQ’s Private Equity asset
management alternates between funds investing in Europe and the US, with
the US fund coming back in 2025.
For traditional asset management, in 2024 assets under management increased
by almost EUR 300 million, or 8%, compared to the end of 2023. Of the
traditional asset management funds that eQ manages itself, 62 per cent gave
a better return than its benchmark index over the past three years.
In real estate asset management, the challenging market situation contributed
to a decrease of over EUR 200 million in assets under management. During
2023 and 2024, eQ’s real estate fund returns have been negatively affected
by the rise in real estate yield expectations and financing costs due to the 
sharp rise in interest rates. As a rule, credit standards did not rise any further in
the final quarter of the year and interest rates have already fallen significantly.
We invest in sustainability
Sustainability has long been one of the pillars of our operations and it
is part of everything we do. We, the eQ Group, act in a responsible and
sustainable manner and integrate this work systematically and in practice
to eQ Asset Management’s investment operations and Advium’s corporate
finance operations.
Responsibility is a key part of our investment activities. We received excellent
marks, including in the PRI assessment, where we outperformed our peer group
and received full five stars in five sections. In addition, in the GRESB survey
of the real estate sector, both our real estate funds performed better than
both the overall respondents and the eQ peer group averages. eQ Community
Properties even came out on top of its peer group. We are committed to
continuously improving our responsibility in cooperation with our customers.
We want to offer our customers concrete solutions that support their needs
also from a sustainability perspective, now and in the future.
The eQ Group’s Sustainability Report, published now for the eighth time, is part
of our Annual Report.
Advium’s profit grew
In 2024, the value of mergers and acquicitions worldwide remained at the
same level as in 2023, but below the long-term average. There were slightly
fewer mergers and acquisitions in Finland in 2024 than in 2023. Real estate
transactions in Finland remained very low during 2024, and even below the low
level of the previous year. The main factors behind the low activity were high
interest rates and poor access to finance.
During 2024, Advium acted as advisor in four published M&A transactions and
one published real estate transaction.
Consolidated balance sheet and dividend proposal
The group has no interest-bearing loans and a strong balance sheet. The Board
of Directors has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting that a
dividend of EUR 0.66 per share be paid, which corresponds to the Group’s
earnings per share for the previous year. The dividend is proposed to be paid in
two instalments.
Thank you to customers, personnel, and partners
I would like to thank all our customers for their excellent cooperation and trust
in our services.
Market conditions have been challenging for eQ for a couple of years, including
last year. Our personnel are experienced, professional, very committed, and
motivated. In addition, the level of job satisfaction has remained extremely
high, just like in recent years. On a scale of 1 to 5, personnel rate job
satisfaction and well-being at 4.3, which is an excellent level. I would like to
thank all of our personnel for a job well done in 2024.
In addition to our customers and staff, a warm thank you also to all of eQ’s
partners for their good cooperation.
Changes in eQ’s management
Mikko Koskimies, CEO of eQ Plc and Managing Director of eQ Asset
Management Ltd, left these positions at the end of October 2024 due to
a serious illness. Koskimies passed away in November. Mikko was a valued
colleague and a dear friend. We will all miss Mikko.
Tero Estovirta, deputy Managing Director of eQ Asset Management Ltd, was
appointed Managing Director of eQ Asset Management Ltd and member of the
eQ Group’s management team at the end of October.
In 2024, Jacob af Forselles was appointed as the Managing Director of Advium
Corporate Finance Ltd and as a member to eQ Group’s Management Team. He
started in his position at the beginning of August.
2025 outlook
The difficult market situation in the Finnish real estate market continued in
2024. Our assessment is that the real estate market levelled off towards the
end of the year and that yield requirements generally stopped rising in the final
quarter of the year. However, market liquidity remained at a very low level.
The real estate market in general remains challenging. In several Finnish openended real estate funds, redemptions have not been completed on time and
investors have had to wait for their money. Funds for redemption payments are
mainly raised by selling properties and, as the transaction market remains quiet,
redemption payments have had to be postponed. Lower interest rates and
economic growth are having a positive impact on the real estate market. The
market expects interest rates in Europe to continue to fall and the economy to
gradually start to recover. If these estimates materialise, we expect 2025 to be
a better year for the real estate market than 2024.
Due to the current situation, eQ’s real estate fund management fees are
expected to decrease in 2025 compared to the previous year.
Sales of eQ’s Private Equity products has continued to be strong, and we
believe that Finnish asset management clients will increase the Private Equity
allocations in their portfolios in the coming years. We estimate that eQ’s
Private Equity fees will increase in 2025 compared to last year. The exit market
for private equity funds was quieter than expected in 2024. As a result, the
timing of Private Equity performance fees accruing to eQ has moved forward.
Performance fees are expected to increase starting from 2026, with a number
of private equity products expected to move into the performance fee phase.
In traditional asset management, we believe we have a good market position.
The development of fees is largely dependent on market development.