Unlocking future growth through
network innovation
We believe in a world where anything that can go wireless, will go wireless – and we are
building our business around that vision. Ericsson’s aim is to extend the use of mobile
connectivity beyond consumers and accelerate digitalization across industry and society.
Our strategy harnesses the synergy of high-performing, programmable networks, together
with developer innovation, to drive the next generation of digital services.
During 2024, we continued to execute on
our strategy; strengthening our leadership
in mobile networks, expanding our efforts
in enterprise and continuing to foster an
integrity-led culture. Despite challenges
in the market, we concluded 2024 with an
adjusted gross margin1) of nearly 45% and
adjusted EBITA1) of SEK 27.2 billion, corresponding to an EBITA margin1) of 11.0%.
We also reinforced our market leading position. As expected, our customers continued to
exercise caution with their investments, but
towards the end of the year we saw stabilization of investments. In the fourth quarter
sales returned to growth for the first time in
8 quarters. Our solid financial performance
underscores the competitiveness of our
solutions, our commercial discipline and
our focus on costs.
Technology leadership remains our foundation – and here we will take every measure
needed to keep our leading position. As a
result of the positive actions we’ve taken during the year, including streamlining our business to maximize cost efficiency, we can
continue to invest in technology leadership,
so we are well positioned going forward.
By extending connectivity beyond consumers, we aim to take the next step and
accelerate digitalization across industry
and society. This, we believe, will drive a
new generation of digital services.
Going forward, mobile networks will
increasingly need to serve consumer and
enterprise applications with different performance levels that are delivered at different
times. For that reason, networks of the future
will need to be high-performing and programmable, and their capabilities will need
to be easily accessible.
Ericsson is harnessing the synergy of
high-performing, programmable networks,
together with developer innovation to generate new growth. We are leveraging the capabilities of the network to expand into adjacent
segments, such as enterprises, fixed wireless
access, mission critical and defense. We are
also opening up the network for developer
innovation to drive new uses cases, leveraging features in the mobile network. This has
the potential to accelerate innovation and
growth in our industry.
Mobile networks – the next wave
Mobile networks are critical infrastructure
that are key to solving many consumer needs.
Despite this, the RAN market over the past
20 years has experienced flat growth as communications service providers' returns remain
decoupled from increasing network traffic.
To address this challenge, we envision a new
wave of digitalization that goes beyond
consumers and current monetization models.
Consequently, our strategy is focused on
creating additional use cases and opening up
the network for new monetization streams.
Connectivity is a vital horizontal layer in
the digital stack, with different performance
demands. This is why we are investing in programmable networks that can be managed
through software, allowing for flexible control 
over how the network acts and what services
can be launched. Differentiated connectivity
is a key feature of these networks enabling
communications service providers to provide
distinct levels of service quality and prioritize
various types of data traffic.
In the future, the applications will order
specific performance levels on-demand
from the connectivity layer. For example, AI
applications will require higher uplink performance while AR glasses will require ultra-low
latency. This will be done through Application
Programming Interfaces, or network APIs.
So far, however, most of the network’s
capabilities have been inaccessible to developers, hampering innovation. By opening
it up through network APIs, developers can
easily access network features such as speed,
latency and location to innovate and create
new use cases. This is a seismic shift that will
unlock the value of 5G for the entire industry. With this shift, communications service
providers with programmable networks will
be able to generate new revenues from new
applications, stimulating a network effect of
additional investments into their networks.
Leadership in mobile networks
At the heart of our competitiveness is leadership in mobile networks. Our aim is to provide
the industry’s best performing networks with
the lowest total cost of ownership. Leadership
in our industry is based on our investments in
R&D and the world class talent we have in the
company. Ericsson is consistently ranked as
a leader in third-party assessments in areas
such as performance and energy efficiency.
And when we measure in-field performance,
we consistently beat out our competitors.
During 2024, we announced enhancements to our networks portfolio that further
improves security and energy efficiency. We
also introduced new Radio Access Network
(RAN) software capabilities that significantly
boost performance and programmability.
The number of Fixed Wireless Access
(FWA) connections continued to grow during
2024. In fact, FWA data traffic is projected
to grow by a factor of more than 4 to reach
around 170 exabytes per month by the end
of 2030. This will represent approximately
36% of the total mobile network data traffic.
In Cloud Software and Services, we
evolved the portfolio with new AI-based
solutions – including intent-based operations, Explainable AI, which provides insights
into complex model decisions, and new
service orchestration and assurance –
enabling communications service providers
to capture the full value of 5G and achieve
operational efficiency. We also launched
Ericsson Compact Packet Core to simplify
communications service provider transition
to cloud native.
We’re seeing increased momentum
around high-performing, programmable networks, which is very encouraging. The AT&T
contract, which we announced last year,
was the first proof point, and laid the initial
groundwork. During 2024, we also signed
a key deal with MasOrange in Spain to provide them with an open and programmable
5G Standalone network, putting them at the
forefront in Europe.
Expansion into enterprise
Our strategy focuses on creating new use
cases and monetization opportunities for
networks. Enterprises are a key target for us
as they need flexibility and reliability from
mobile networks but also have a need for
high performing networks and differentiated
connectivity. To address this, we're pursuing
opportunities like private wireless networks
for enterprises and network APIs to open new
revenue streams, leveraging our strength in
mobile technology.
During 2024, we continued to transform
our Enterprise Wireless Solutions business.
We are refocusing the go-to-market organization to better deliver our solutions in the
future and with a unified portfolio under the
Ericsson brand, we now have a clear path to
become the market leader in cellular-centric
enterprise networking and security. At the
end of the year, we also introduced a new
Enterprise 5G portfolio including indoor
neutral host, which saw good growth after
its launch.
We're also accelerating enterprise digitalization by developing an ecosystem for
advanced network features through network
APIs, which is one of the best opportunities
for new monetization. Network APIs allow
developers to integrate network resources
into new applications. Vonage is crucial here,
working with developers to monetize 5G.
Recent partnerships – with Verizon, AT&T,
KDDI and AWS – are powerful proof points
that the ecosystem is taking shape.  
To scale this market further, we announced
a new joint venture with several of the world’s
leading communications service providers to
aggregate and sell network APIs. The new
venture, named Aduna, aims to remove
hurdles and accelerate the global growth of
network APIs, giving developers easy access
to advanced 5G network capabilities and
driving enterprise digitalization through
mobile connectivity.
Leading with integrity
At Ericsson, we believe in conducting our
business ethically and with integrity, every
day, in all the work that we do. During the
year, we continued our efforts to embed our
Ethics and Compliance program throughout
the organization and ensure that all employees understand what is expected of them in
order to comply with our Code of Business
Ethics.
In March 2024, the independent compliance Monitor appointed by the US Department of Justice (DOJ) in connection with
Ericsson’s resolution of historical violations of
the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, certified
that our anti-corruption compliance program
had satisfied requirements and is functioning
effectively. In June 2024, we also announced
the conclusion of the work and term of the
independent compliance Monitor.
While these are important steps on our
integrity journey, it in no way marks the end
point. We remain focused on enhancing the
program and driving the right behaviors over
the long term. We are committed to integrity and we have no tolerance for corruption,
fraud or any other misconduct. We cannot
lead our industry unless we conduct our
business in the right way.
Conducting our business with integrity is
not just about following our Code of Business
Ethics, but also how we act. For example, we
make fact-based decisions and are willing
to take difficult discussions. An integrity-led
culture is a competitive advantage for us. This
also includes making Ericsson a world-class
workplace so we can attract the best talent
and be competitive in the future. All our talent
decisions are made regardless of background,
gender, nationality, or religion, and of course
are merit-based.
Another focus area for us is "Target Zero",
which is about having zero fatal accidents
and lost workdays by 2025. A lot of work has
been done to drive a safety-first mindset
across the organization and the outcome
in 2024 was a significant improvement.
However, nothing less than zero can ever be
good enough so here, we need to continue
our efforts. Market developments and business
performance
While the mobile infrastructure market during
2024 remained challenging, we saw North
America returning to growth and positive
trends in our business performance. In 2024,
group organic net sales1) decreased by –5%
YoY to SEK 247.9 billion, adjusted gross margin2) improved to 44.9% and free cash flow
before M&A increased to SEK 40.0 billion.
In Networks, sales declined overall but we
saw strong development in North America.
Since 2022, Networks reported net sales have
fallen by –18%. The more favorable market
mix together with continued cost-reduction
initiatives and improved supply chain effectiveness, enabled us to deliver an improved
adjusted gross margin2) of 47.2% and an
adjusted EBITA margin2) of 17.5% during
2024.
In Cloud Software and Services, we continued to execute on our strategy to turn the
business around and increase profitability.
During the year, we saw continued improvements with higher adjusted gross margin2),
benefitting from enhanced delivery performance and cost actions, and an adjusted
EBITA margin2) of 3.2% for the year, reflecting our strategic focus on commercial discipline and acceleration of automation.
In 2024, the Enterprise segment experienced a –2% organic sales1) decline. Enterprise Wireless Solutions reported sales grew
by 17%, due to strong demand for private 5G
and neutral host solutions, while reported
sales in the Global Communications Platform
fell by –10% as we strategically reduced
activities in certain countries to focus on more
profitable market segments. Adjusted gross
margin2) increased due to the actions we
have taken, but adjusted EBITA2) declined
due to increased investments to improve
operational effectiveness in Global Communications Platform.
While our focus on driving the market for
network APIs continues, the additional priority
is to turn around the existing business of Vonage. Our plan is to focus the business on higher
margin products, withdraw from low-margin
products and geographies and improve Opex.
We expect continued headwind in sales as we
withdraw from certain markets with a stabilization towards the end of 2025.
While there are areas we need to improve,
the overall progress underscores the strength
of our business and the actions we have
taken during the year. This includes improved
utilization of the supply chain, cost-out activities and momentum in our patent portfolio.
We also saw IPR licensing revenue increase
to SEK 14 billion in 2024, with further growth
opportunities in additional licensing areas
such as automotive and IoT.
The geopolitical environment is becoming
increasingly uncertain, including talks about
raised tariffs between some of the world’s
largest economies. If tariffs are implemented,
they will impact our profitability, but the
effect cannot be quantified or understood yet
as we don’t know what tariffs will come or
how they will be implemented. We’re taking
actions to be as prepared as possible by continuing to build resilience in our supply chain.
This includes investments in R&D and how
and where we design and manufacture our
products, such as building in design options
and availability of multiple supply chains,
to mitigate potential disruptions.
We will continue to be laser focused on
what we can control. Dedicated investments
in R&D and continued operational excellence
will further strengthen Ericsson’s technology
leadership and financial performance, irrespective of market conditions.
Looking ahead
I am an optimist, and I believe that the next
wave of digitalization will usher in a new era
of growth and prosperity for both industries
and society. Building out critical digital infrastructure will be essential for generating value
from new technologies such as AI.
At the heart of our strategy are highperforming, programmable networks that
deliver differentiated connectivity. Our
leadership in mobile networks, combined
with our expansion into enterprises and
cultural transformation, is the core of this
strategy, allowing us to expand the market
for connectivity and create new avenues for
monetization.
By opening up networks through APIs,
we empower developers to innovate, crafting
enhanced applications that enable communications service providers to differentiate their
offerings and evolve business models beyond
traditional subscriptions. This approach
not only drives new service growth but also
stimulates further investment in network
infrastructure, resulting in growth for both
Ericsson and the broader telecom industry.
I want to extend my heartfelt thanks to
our dedicated team. Their hard work and
perseverance have made our achievements
over the past year possible. Together, we are
poised to lead the next wave of network innovation, driving a future of unprecedented
connectivity and opportunity
