The uncertainty of the market, challenging
operating environment, and customers’
slow decision-making on new investments
characterized the year 2024. We managed
to keep our revenue slightly growing, but
profitability fell significantly short of our
targets. We continued to implement our
growth strategy and invested in future
growth. In particular, we developed
our service offering related to artificial
intelligence and carried out several
customer projects utilizing AI.
The challenging market situation continued
throughout the year 2024. Orders received and
order books from our customers were generally
declining, and very few decisions on new
investments were made in an extremely uncertain
market situation. This led to a weakening demand
situation in all quarters. The defense and energy
industries were the only customer sectors that
saw positive development, and we shifted our
sales focus to them during the year. In Europe,
especially the markets in Finland and Germany were
challenging, but demand was weak elsewhere as
well. The Chinese market improved positively in the
second half of the year, and the demand situation
clearly improved. With the growing importance of
cost competitiveness in global competition, there
was also increasing demand for our offshoring and
nearshoring solutions.
In the challenging market situation, our revenue
declined organically, but through acquisitions, we
managed to keep the revenue slightly growing.
We carried out extensive adjustment measures
during the year, which significantly impacted our
operating profit. The effectiveness of the adjustment
measures began to show in the last quarter of the
year, when the profitability of all three of our service
areas improved operationally compared to the
previous quarters. We succeeded well in cash flow
management in the challenging situation, and our
operating cash flow was at a good level throughout
the year. Although we had to make difficult decisions
during the year, our organization was able to achieve
good performance, and I want to thank all our
employees for their perseverance and good work.
ACQUISITIONS REALIZED
OUR GROWTH STRATEGY
Despite the difficulties in the market situation, we
continued to implement our strategy during the year,
developing the company’s business and investing
in future growth. We continued to implement our 
growth strategy by acquiring the Danish technology
service company STRONGIT ApS, which focuses on
product development solutions, in January, and the
Swedish consultancy specializing in testing, AFFRA
AB, in May. Additionally, in June, we acquired a
19.99% minority stake in Bangladesh’s largest and
globally operating IT consultancy company BJIT,
which will strengthen our cost competitiveness in
the future.
We launched the renewed brand and values of
Etteplan at the beginning of 2024. The company
has evolved and changed over the years from a
traditional design office to a modern technology
service company. With the renewed brand, the
company is being developed to reflect its current
state as a leading global technology service
company in its field.
OUR GLOBAL OPERATING
MODEL SUPPORTED OUR
COMPETITIVENESS
All three of our service areas suffered from the
prevailing investment slump, and the demand
situation was weak for almost the entire year.
We had to make organizational restructuring and
adjustment measures, which caused significant
one-time items. However, we succeeded in utilizing
our global service model, which improved our
competitiveness, especially in the Engineering
Solutions service area. Interest in our outsourcing
solutions remained at a good level in the prevailing
market situation as our customers sought cost
savings and operational efficiency, and we carried
out several outsourcing projects during the year.
In the Software and Embedded Solutions service
area, we managed to win new customers outside
Etteplan’s operating countries, including Japan. Our
global service model demonstrated its strength in a
situation requiring cost competitiveness, where few
product development projects were initiated.
The demand for the Technical Communication
Solutions service area is significantly influenced by
the number of delivery projects of our customers,
which was declining. In the prevailing market
situation, interest in our services that particularly
increase efficiency has been at a good level as
our customers seek cost savings and operational
efficiency.
A NEW AI-DRIVEN STRATEGY
FOR THE NEW YEAR
The goals for the previous strategy period were set
in 2019, and they were updated when the strategy
period was extended in 2023. We did not achieve the
goals set for the strategy period due to significant
changes in the operating environment that affected
the implementation of the strategy.
During 2024, we worked on our strategy and
published our updated strategy “Transformation
with AI” and our strategic goals for the years
2025-2027 at the end of the year. Digitalization,
the growing importance of artificial intelligence (AI)
and data, sustainability, and the increasing need
for skilled professionals are key trends that affect
both Etteplan’s and our customers’ operations. Our
strongly AI-driven, updated strategy will guide our
operations for the next three years, with the key goal
of creating even more value for our customers and
accelerating the transformation and development
of our customers’ and Etteplan’s business. We will
transform as a company and bring new added value
to our customers through new technologies and AI.
Our updated strategy guides the utilization of the
opportunities brought by AI and new technologies
and the development of new services, where we
see significant growth potential. The importance of
data as a driver of business is continuously growing,
and we are introducing new service solutions
for generating and managing new data, as well
as maintaining and enhancing the use of existing
data. These solutions enable the efficient use of
AI for product companies and process industries
and support their information management and
maintenance. Additionally, we seek growth through
further acquisitions and by leveraging our global
operating model and the competitiveness brought
by nearshoring and offshoring in the growing global
competition.
We are entering 2025 from a still challenging market
situation, but the year started off briskly for us with
the acquisition of the German company Novacon
Powertrain, serving the automotive industry, in
January. We also expect our customers’ investments
to pick up and the demand situation to improve
throughout the year, and thus we anticipate a clear
improvement in both revenue and operating profit
compared to the previous year.
Finally, I warmly thank our customers, partners, and
shareholders for their trust in the company.
