Delivering results in turbulence
In a turbulent and uncertain world, Evli continues to deliver on its long-term strategy.
In 2024, the world continued to be a turbulent place. Increased
geopolitical fragmentation impacted everything from global trade to
overall economic stability, while wars and conflicts persisted.
Visibility into what the future may hold is low, and whatever we can
discern is not always that comforting.
The U.S. presidential election, resulting in Donald Trump's victory, drew
heightened attention to global economic policies and market dynamics.
President Trump's administration is expected to prioritize domestic
manufacturing, likely intensifying protectionist trends worldwide.
While economic growth remained sluggish in Europe, and even more
so in Finland, the U.S. economy delivered strong figures, with its stock
market experiencing an unprecedented rally led by the 'Magnificent
Seven’.
Consumers and businesses welcomed central banks' decisions to
lower interest rates in 2024, although the pace and scale varied across
regions.
While there were positive indicators in the market, the uncertainties of
2024 – driven by the U.S. elections, monetary policy adjustments, and
geopolitical turbulence – prompted investors to adopt a cautious 'waitand-see' approach, carefully evaluating developments before making
significant investment decisions.
Growth from strategic partnership
In this somewhat challenging market, Evli’s revenue and operating profit
developed favorably in 2024. The figures were further strengthened by
the strategic partnership that Evli Plc entered in to in March with Bregal
Milestone, a software and technology growth private equity investor,
regarding Evli’s remuneration services Evli Alexander Incentives Oy (EAI).
EAI was rebranded to Allshares Oy to better reflect its new vision and
strategy. Together, Evli and Bregal Milestone will expand the successful
services that Allshares has provided for clients in Finland and Sweden to
the highly fragmented European market.
Private Banking and Institutional Clients' business developed steadily
in Finland. In Sweden, where there is significant room for growth, we
saw clear positive momentum, when the business developed favorably,
reflecting the success of our efforts to streamline the Swedish
organization and intensify marketing.
Evli’s international sales, accounting for 21 percent of Evli’s total fund
capital, recovered in 2024 after a period of slower growth due to the
pandemic followed by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Our strong expertise
of the Nordic bond markets was appreciated in the renewed interest
rate climate.
In 2024 Evli’s net revenue increased by 17 percent and was EUR 126.8
million (EUR 96.1 million in 2023). Taking into account the incentive
business transaction carried out in March 2024, comparable pro forma
net revenue was 14 percent higher than in the previous year, rising to
EUR 109.7 million (EUR 96.6 million). Operating profit increased by 45
percent from the previous year to EUR 58.2 million (EUR 40.2 million).
Comparable pro forma operating profit increased by 19 percent to
EUR 43.3 million (EUR 36.4 million). Return on equity was 34.4 percent
(22.8%) with the ratio of recurring revenue to operating costs being 132
percent (130%). The mutual fund capital, including alternative investment
products, was approximately EUR 13.4 billion (EUR 12.6 billion), and clients’
assets under management were EUR 18.9 billion (EUR 18.0 billion).
Due to the increased interest rate level, the current market environment
is challenging for the sale of alternative investment products.
Considering the market situation, sales and product development in
this asset class performed relatively well during the year. In total, Evli’s
Alternative investment funds collected subscriptions and commitments
totaling EUR 265 million in 2024 (EUR 225 million).
The good momentum in the M&A markets continued through out the
year. Client activity increased clearly, and the mandate base developed
favorably.
Acting responsibly in a fragmented world
We live in an increasingly fragmented world, as countries turn inward,
prioritizing domestic concerns over global cooperation. This shift is
marked by trade restrictions, stricter immigration policies, and the
erosion of multinational agreements. Polarization across all levels of
society further complicates the ability to establish a shared vision for
the future.
This is troubling news in a world that urgently needs collaboration for
a sustainable future. Over the past two years, ESG (environmental,
social and governance issues) has undergone a shift, reflecting evolving
priorities in the face of new challenges. When people are preoccupied
with rising energy bills, higher food prices, and job insecurity, it’s
understandable that sustainability may not be top of mind. Yet, we
cannot afford to become myopic when it comes to addressing climate
change and biodiversity.
At Evli, we believe in real actions for real change. In 2024, we continued
our work with integrating ESG aspects into our portfolio management
and service offering. We launched a new green transition fund, Evli
Private Capital Fund I, focusing on the energy sector transformation,
resource efficiency and the circular economy. In addition, we further
developed our Atlas service, which can help clients build a tailored
portfolio based on their preferred investment styles, objectives and
sustainability themes.
While there are plenty of things to worry about, focusing solely on
threats is not beneficial. We often frame the future as either positive or
negative. In reality, it is neither – it is simply a vision of what we imagine
may come. Each new day presents opportunities to shape that vision
proactively. The pace of innovation – not only in AI but also in other
crucial areas like energy transition – is astonishing, presenting big
opportunities.
A strong culture yields a strong brand
In this fragmented world, our role is to be our clients’ trusted advisor
and actively guide them towards their financial objectives. Awards
point to our clients trusting us: this year Morningstar, a fund research
firm, chose Evli as the best fund house both in Finland and Sweden. In
addition, Evli was chosen as the best institutional asset manager both by
Kantar Prospera and SFR Research (Scandinavian Financial Research).
In 2024, we celebrated the 25th anniversary of our fund, Evli Corporate
Bond. The fund not only exemplifies our successful investment
philosophy – it is one of the oldest fixed income funds in Finland – but
also highlights the longevity of careers at Evli. Its portfolio manager,
Mikael Lundström, has been at the helm since the very start. Many of
our employees have built long and fulfilling careers with us, a testament
to our unique culture based on continuous learning, curiosity, and an
entrepreneurial spirit.
In 2025, Evli will celebrate its 40th anniversary. This milestone marks
four decades of dedication to our clients and commitment to excellence
in asset management. Our journey over these years has been shaped by
innovation, resilience, and a focus on building lasting relationships with
our stakeholders.
We approach the future as we always have – with curiosity and a
trust in our ability to adapt – maintaining a steady focus on delivering
our strategy while remaining agile when adjustments are needed. Our
ambition is to become the leading asset management company in the
Nordics. Several megatrends support us: generational wealth transfer
will accelerate, and the demand for innovation will drive the creation
of new entrepreneurial wealth. An active approach to investing with a
wide portfolio for efficient diversification will be even more essential in a
fragmented and turbulent world.
We are well-positioned to seize growth opportunities, supported by a
robust balance sheet enabling potential strategic acquisitions, a trusted
brand that resonates with clients, and a team of dedicated employees.
I want to thank our clients, shareholders, co-operation partners and my
colleagues at Evli for your continued engagement and commitment and
look forward to another year together.