Exel had a solid year in 2024. We performed well despite
the economic uncertainty, and our revenue increased and
adjusted operating profit increased significantly compared
to 2023, in line with our guidance. We continued the
implementation of our transformative strategy with
decisive steps and accomplished a lot during the first full
year of the strategy period.
The year closed with great news from India, where our
new factory was completed on schedule and within
budget. We are pleased to be able to strengthen our
capabilities to provide top-tier composite solutions to our
clients in India and globally, especially in the wind power
industry.
Several significant customer engagements in wind
power
In 2024, we secured several new wind power customer
engagements, which we expect to turn into revenue in
2025. Completion of the new India factory paves the way
for the final approvals by our first customer, a major wind
turbine manufacturer in South Asia, which are now
ongoing and will enable us to move to volume production.
In addition, spar cap deliveries from India factory for
Vestas are expected to begin in the last quarter of 2025,
once the products are tested and approved. The deliveries
of helihoist systems for a major Western wind turbine
manufacturer from our Nanjing factory in China are also
expected to start in 2025.
We are also thrilled to announce that our partnership with
airship manufacturer and operator Flying Whales will
continue as we have signed a significant contract for
delivery of carbon fiber composites tubes for the structure
of world's largest airships. Earlier in 2024, we announced
an R&D partnership for the development and prototyping
of the tubes. The collaboration is a great example of our
strategic intent to increase value to our customers by
being involved in their R&D processes from the very start.
It showcases our advanced R&D and manufacturing
capabilities and highlights our ability to meet stringent
quality requirements and timeliness demands of the
aerospace industry, for example.
Towards the end of the year, our Joensuu factory in
Finland received the IATF 16949 Certification for the
automotive industry, which will help us grow our customer
base in the automotive industry and further strengthen
our position in transportation.
New operating model
We renewed our business model in early 2024 and started
to serve our customers from two global business units:
Engineered Solutions Business Unit, concentrating on
tailored solutions for multiple industries, and Industrial
Solutions Business Unit, focusing on selected applications
with significant growth potential. To meet the needs of
the new business units, we reviewed our factory network
with larger, more efficient and better-resourced
production units in mind, with the aim of making more use
of the capacity of our factories and increasing utilization
rates.
The successful rights issue carried out in the second
quarter strengthened our financial position, which gives us
more room to maneuver and execute our strategy.
The year also included difficult decisions that could not
be avoided. Following a strategic factory review in
Oudenaarde factory in Belgium, which thoroughly assessed
the factory’s role and future options, and extensive
consultations with employee representatives, we had to
confirm that the factory will be closed as a necessary
measure to address-loss making activities. The activities
at the Oudenaarde unit will cease by the end of the first
quarter of 2025. Unfortunately, the employment of
approximately 50 employees will end. Strong order intake amid cautious markets
In 2024 our order intake increased by 6.9% to EUR 104.9
million, and our order backlog at the end of the year
stood at EUR 34.2 million, up by 14.8% year-on-year. The
favorable development of order intake and order backlog
were great achievements considering the still fragile
macroeconomic sentiment that continued towards the end
of the year. The uncertainty about the global economic
development affected customer behavior and demand
across all geographies. During the year, our customers
were cautious in their orders due to uncertainties related
to the impacts of the Trump administration and import
trade tariffs on the global economy, as well as
geopolitical tensions, among other things.
Revenue growth boosted by active customer work in
business units
Revenue for the full year increased by 2.9% to EUR 99.6
million. Revenue increased in Buildings and infrastructure,
Industrial and Transportation, and decreased in Energy,
and Other customer industries. The strongest growth was
witnessed in Buildings and infrastructure, where we were
able to gain new customers despite the difficult market
situation. In the Energy customer industry, the decrease
was mainly due to the construction of the Indian factory
in 2024 to meet the shift of wind power business demand
from the US to Asia.
The revenue in Engineered Solutions Business Unit (ESBU)
was EUR 82.5 million and EUR 17.1 million in Industrial
Solutions Business Unit (ISBU). ESBU progressed well in
optimizing our factory network, and towards the end of
the year, received several significant orders especially in
Energy and Transportation customer industries. The key
highlights of the year for ISBU included the successful
commissioning of the new factory in India. In addition to
significant wind power customer engagements, other
significant orders received by ISBU included new multiyear agreement with Foton Bus and Coach company for
the delivery of pultruded composite profiles for Foton’s
electric buses.
Profit improvement actions paying off
Our profitability in terms of adjusted operating profit
improved thanks to our actions to optimize capacity, cost
control, decrease in fixed costs, and operational
measures. Full year adjusted operating profit increased to
EUR 1.7 million (-2.4) and adjusted operating profit
margin to 1.7% (-2.5%). We conducted profit improvement
actions, which focused on improving efficiency and
capacity utilization in our factory network. Operating
profit for the full year was EUR -2.9 million (-4.9) and
operating profit margin was -2.9% (-5.0%).
Our net cash flow from operating activities was EUR 0.6
million (4.4) for the full year. Our financial position is
strong, and we are advancing with a clear agenda towards
our financial target of net debt to adjusted EBITDA <3x by
2028. Earnings per share for 2024 were EUR -0.07 (-0.77).
The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General
Meeting that no dividend be paid for 2024.
Driving profitable growth also in uncertain times
Despite lingering uncertainties in the global economy
affecting customer behavior, the global economy is
estimated to grow by approximately 3.3% in 2025 (Source:
OECD and IMF). At Exel, we are pleased with how our
strategy is working and expect profitable growth to
accelerate this year. Exel’s both business units have new
customer engagements that are expected to deliver
revenue in 2025.
In the short term, announced strikes in Finland may have
an impact on our revenue and profitability in the first
quarter of the year. The closure of the Belgium factory is
also expected to increase internal workload and costs in
2025, temporarily offsetting part of the fixed cost savings
from the closure. We anticipate our customers to request
other sites in our factory network to supply their
products. Until such time, there might be a temporary
impact on our revenue due to the closure of the Belgium
factory.
Guidance for the full year 2025
Exel Composites expects revenue to increase and adjusted
operating profit to increase significantly in 2025 compared
to 2024. While we are always committed to keep
improving our results, we can be very satisfied with our
performance in 2024. I would like to take this opportunity
to thank our customers and other stakeholders for their
good cooperation and to express my gratitude to all of
Exel’s personnel for their committed work during the
year.