F-Secure’s fourth quarter revenue was
slightly above the level of the previous
year. Overall market sentiment was
relatively stable. We won two new
Communication Service Provider
(CSP) partner deals in Asia-Pacific,
along with several service extensions
and renewals with key partners
globally. We also signed a frame
agreement with a European CSP group
for F-Secure Sense and an agreement
for DNS Security services with
a Central European CSP. The positive
impact of these contracts will start
during the course of 2025.
The collaboration with a Tier 1 CSP for
embedded security that was
announced in March, was launched
according to plan in December with service marketing expected to start during
the first quarter of 2025. During this delivery process, we have built the broadest
embedded security portfolio in the market, offering the highest degree of flexibility to
our current and prospective Tier 1 partners.
According to a study published by Global Anti-Scam Alliance1) in October, more than
two billion people fell victim to a scam during the year, and more than one trillion US
dollars were lost worldwide. This confirms that we were clearly in the right place at
the right time with our launch of Scam Protection module in F-Secure Total already
in June.
In October, Omdia – an Informa Group company - ranked F-Secure as a leader in
the heat map for vendors providing Telcos with consumer cyber security solutions2)
.
The independent research firm gave F-Secure the highest possible rating in all six
categories: Internet Security, Identity Protection & Privacy, Device & Network
Protection, Professional Services, Mobile Apps, and Market Impact. F-Secure also
won the best use case of AI for customer experience for its AI-based SMS Protection
at the AI Gala in Finland in October. The feature forms part of F Secure’s recently
launched scam protection capabilities. The award celebrates an innovation that has
significantly improved customer experience with the help of AI. The award serves as
further endorsement to F-Secure’s vision to become the #1 in consumer security
experience company in the world.
F-Secure received ISO 27001 certification3) in November. This certificate covers all
company operations and represents the values and practices we are and have been
committed to; implementing robust security policies, risk management measures,
and data protection protocols to ensure our customers’ and partners’ information is
handled with utmost care.
During the fourth quarter, we implemented a transformation to drive growth and
better serve our partners in each segment. As a result of the conducted change
negotiations, we achieved the targeted organization, operational model and growth
strategy alignment as well as cost savings with fewer redundancies than initially
indicated. These savings will be invested back into the company’s growth initiatives
during 2025.
Our new Leadership team has been fully operational since last quarter. The
team's combined expertise, experience and vision are invaluable assets as we
drive transformation, growth and operational excellence at F-Secure. We remain
committed to driving innovation and excellence in consumer cyber security, and
the well-being, dedication and expertise of our personnel remains an absolute focus
for our leadership as we enter 2025. My sincere thanks to all our Fellows for taking
meaningful strides forward in executing our growth strategy