2024 was a year of success and transformation for Faron
Pharmaceuticals, marking a new chapter in Faron’s story
and solidifying our position as a leader in the field of
immunotherapy.
With fresh leadership and renewed focus, we reinforced
our organisational structure. We welcomed Tuomo Pätsi
as the new Chairman of our Board, taking over from
Dr. Frank Armstrong, alongside Yrjö Wichmann as our
new CFO and Dr. Petri Bono as Chief Medical Officer, all
of whose extensive expertise and fresh perspectives
have invigorated our renewed strategy. I was also proud
to assume the role of CEO this year, taking over from
Dr. Markku Jalkanen. These changes, coupled with the
strong foundation built by our predecessors, have enabled
us to refine our mission and approach, making us wellequipped to navigate the complexities of a competitive
and rapidly evolving sector and I would like to thank
Markku and Frank for their commitment to Faron and for
their support during this transition. Their contributions
thus far, combined with the dedication of our entire team,
have enabled us to sustain momentum even amidst
challenging market conditions, setting a clear course for
sustainable growth and innovation at Faron.
The theme of transformation has continued through
the clinical development program for our lead asset,
bexmarilimab. We have made significant progress, from
both a clinical and regulatory perspective, further cementing
our believe in the potential of bexmarilimab to address
critical unmet needs in oncology. We had numerous
positive interactions with regulatory authorities resulting in
key milestones including Fast Track Designation (FTD) for
bexmarilimab from the FDA for the treatment of relapsed
or refractory myelodysplastic syndrome (r/r MDS) patients,
underscoring the urgency for novel therapies in treating this
aggressive blood cancer.
We also received positive feedback from our formal Type
D Scientific Advice Meeting with the FDA regarding the
registrational clinical development plan for bexmarilimab in
the treatment of high-risk MDS (HR MDS). The FDA
acknowledged the difficulties of running a randomized
study with a comparator in the r/r setting and instead
proposed that Faron conduct a confirmatory phase III trial in
frontline HR MDS, that would not require a separate phase
III in r/r MDS. These two milestones significantly enhance our ability
to advance bexmarilimab through the regulatory
process, also allowing for frequent FDA interactions
and streamlined development pathways, which will
be invaluable as we prepare for pivotal studies and
market approval.
In parallel, the Phase II interim data from our BEXMAB
trial, presented at the 66th American Society of
Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting, demonstrated
remarkable efficacy. The trial achieved an 80% overall
response rate in r/r MDS patients, with 70% achieving
deep and durable responses, including complete and
partial remissions. Importantly, four patients progressed
to potentially curative bone marrow transplants, and the
combination therapy with azacitidine continued to show a
favourable safety profile.
The regulatory recognition and the robust clinical
results achieved to date highlight bexmarilimab’s ability
to reprogram myeloid cells by engaging the Clever-1
receptor, overcoming resistance to hypomethylating
agents (HMAs), and activating the immune system,
demonstrating its potential as a transformative therapy
for an underserved population. As we advance to pivotal
efficacy readouts and prepare for the initiation of Phase
III development in the second half of 2025 after having an
end-of-phase 2 (EOP2) meeting with the FDA. We remain
focused on our mission to bring this innovative therapy to
patients facing significant unmet medical needs.
Also in 2024, we considerably strengthened our financial
position, successfully raising €35.5 million (gross)
through an oversubscribed combined share offering,
a strong reflection of our investors’ confidence in the
potential of bexmarilimab. This additional financing
played an essential role in the acceleration of our clinical
programs – particularly our BEXMAB trial and provided a
stronger foundation for advancing bexmarilimab towards
commercialisation.
Looking ahead, 2025 promises to be a pivotal year as
we aim to deliver crucial clinical data and engage in
meaningful discussions with regulatory authorities. We
remain steadfast in our mission to bring life-changing
immunotherapies to patients who need them most and
the exceptional progress we’ve achieved this year brings
us closer to achieving that goal. I would like to extend my
gratitude to our shareholders, partners, and the Faron team
for their continuous support and commitment this year
and I look forward to what 2025 brings. 