During 2024, we continued to execute Finnair's strategy
in a highly competitive market. Travel demand and
average ticket fares declined after a record strong
year 2023, while capacity in the market increased.
We carried 11.7 million passengers during the year,
approximately 6 per cent more than in the previous
year. Our revenue increased by 2 per cent, mainly
driven by higher ancillary revenue. Our comparable
operating result decreased by 18 per cent from the
strong comparison year, as operating expenses
increased more than revenue, mainly due to higher
capacity. Unit revenue per available seat kilometre
decreased by 3.6 per cent, as ticket fares and travel
demand declined from the previous year.
Our net cash flow from operating activities was strong,
and we systematically implemented measures to
further strengthen the balance sheet during the year.
Thanks to the positive result and our strengthened
financial position, we have the opportunity to reward
our shareholders after a long time with a return of
capital of 0.11 euros per share as proposed by the
Board of Directors.
Measured in available seat kilometres and taking
wet lease outs into account, our capacity increased
by 6.8 per cent during the year, which was less than
we predicted due to industrial action in the early
and late part of the year and aircraft maintenance
needs, among other things. At the end of the year, we
received the 18th Airbus A350 wide-body aircraft,which immediately began operating on our long-haul
flights and supports the growth of our business. Two of
our Airbus A330s are leased to our oneworld partner
Qantas.
During the year, we flew a successfully balanced route
network. On our eleven Asian routes, we continue to
have a strong foothold in key Asian markets. At the same
time, the role of North Atlantic and European traffic
in our business has grown. We increased flights to, for
example, Finnish Lapland, the Canary Islands, northern
Norway and London, reopened our route to Nagoya in
Japan and added weekly frequencies to Dallas.
Customer satisfaction, measured by Net Promoter
Score, was 37 for the full year. We completed the cabin
renovation of our long-haul aircraft, and the new
premium economy class, the completely redesigned
business class and the refreshed economy class are
now available on all our long-haul routes. In July, we
opened a new, bigger lounge in the Schengen area
of Helsinki airport. Our loyalty program Finnair Plus
entered a new era in March when we introduced the
Avios loyalty currency, and the program became
based on money spent. In the fourth quarter, the
pilots' industrial action and other traffic disruptions
weakened customer satisfaction to some extent. We
invest in the management of disruptions so that we
can minimise their impact and provide customers with
high-quality and timely service even in exceptional
situations. A deeper understanding of customer needs
and meeting those play a key role in the development
of Finnair's offering and customer service and will be
a special focus area for us in the upcoming strategy
period.
In October, we set a science-based emissions
reduction target, which was validated by the Science
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). Our goal is to reduce
the emission intensity (CO2e/RTK) of our operations by
34.5 per cent by 2033 from a 2023 baseline. We focus
on reducing our own emissions, and our means of
achieving this goal consist of investing in sustainable
aviation fuel beyond regulatory requirements,
improving operational efficiency, optimising the
network and investing in fleet renewal. Increasing the
use of sustainable aviation fuel accounts for more
than half of the CO2e reduction we are aiming for,
and the development of its availability and price is
crucial to achieving the climate targets of Finnair and
other airlines. The costs of reducing the environmental
impact of aviation will increase significantly due to
regulatory measures, such as the abolition of free
emissions allowances and sustainable aviation fuel
mandates. We aim to cover the cost increases with
profitable flying and, for example, by optimising
ancillary sales.
Finnair's personnel play a key role in executing the
company's strategy and customer experience. At
the end of the year, we introduced a new tool to hear
the views of our personnel. A strong safety culture,
support from the work community, meaningfulness of
work, equality and commitment to common ethical
principles emerged as strengths in the personnel
survey. As development areas, the personnel raised
remuneration, well-being at work and the feeling
of appreciation. During the year, we invested in the
competence development of our personnel and
managerial work and introduced new employee
benefits. We continue to develop the personnel
experience and build a unified Finnair spirit as part of
the company's strategy.
Looking ahead, we are currently finalising a strategy
update focusing on a deeper understanding of
our customers’ needs and strengthening Finnair's
competitiveness. Continuous improvement and
cost efficiency are essential in developing our
competitiveness in a highly competitive market. We
invest in customer experience and in developing
our operations to ensure that our position as a safe
and high-quality airline and a trusted partner for our
customers is maintained and strengthened. As part of
the strategy update, we are also preparing a partial
renewal of our narrow-body fleet.
I would like to warmly thank both our customers and
shareholders for their trust in Finnair. A warm thank you
also to all Finnair employees for their committed work
in serving customers and ensuring smooth and safe
flights. 