A strong year financially
– strategy progressed
2024 was an excellent year for Partnera in the light of the financial
figures, and the implementation of our strategy made strong
progress during the year. The sale of our Finda holdings had
a  positive impact on both profit and balance sheet performance
and, together with the sharpening of the strategy, allows Partnera
to return to being a stable dividend payer. Foamit Group performed
well despite the soft general market situation, and investments in
the Norway and Finland plants proceeded as planned.
Partnera’s net sales for January–December were EUR 41.4 (50.4) million and
profit for the financial year was EUR 4.7 (-0.6) million. The parent company’s
profit before appropriations and taxes improved significantly year-on-year,
amounting to EUR 10.4 (-14.8) million. The net sales of Partnera Group’s main business,
Foamit Group, amounted to EUR 41.4 (43.7) million
in January–December. The infrastructure construction market, which remained moderate, and major
deliveries of foam glass to the  Vihti construction
project and infrastructure construction projects,
especially in Sweden, had a positive impact on net
sales. The foam glass business developed well in
Finland and especially in Sweden. The demand for
packaging glass continued to grow in the Nordic
countries and rest of Europe.
Foamit Group’s EBITDA amounted to EUR 6.0 (7.6)
million in January–December 2024. Although
EBITDA, which illustrates the operating result,
declined year-on-year, it was almost at the same
level as in the comparison period, taking non-recurring items into account. Sales prices developed positively in all operating countries. Foamit Group’s
order book remained strong and amounted to EUR
18.6 (18.9) million at the end of the review period.
The order book included, among other things, supply contracts for major Nordic motorway and highway projects in Sweden, Norway and Finland.
Investments in Foamit production
In March 2024, Foamit Group and its owners decided
on investments of approximately EUR 10 million in
the Onsøy production plant in Norway. The investment programme will double the production plant’s
foam glass production capacity and production will
be almost emission-free. In late 2024, a decision was
also made to invest EUR 2.2 million in Foamit Group’s
production plant in Forssa to increase the production
capacity for small foam glass fractions. The positive
impact on profit is estimated to be significant.
During the year, we clarified the balance sheet
structure of Foamit Group and secured financing
for the implementation of the growth strategy. As
a result of the financing arrangement, our holding
in Foamit increased from 63 per cent to 66 per
cent. In the share issue carried out in the financing
arrangement, the shareholder loans recognised
in liabilities were converted into Foamit Group’s
unrestricted equity, and the subscription price of
the new shares paid in cash was also recorded in
Foamit Group’s reserve for unrestricted equity.
This clarified Foamit Group’s balance sheet and
significantly improved its equity ratio.
Partnera’s goal is to develop Foamit Group by investing heavily in foam glass production in Finland,
Sweden and Norway and to grow internationally. The
investments launched in 2024 support the achievement of the growth target. The aim is also to seek
growth through mergers and acquisitions that support Foamit’s business.
Successful exits
The sale of our Finda and Telebusiness InWest
holdings was completed in May for EUR 29.1
million. The transaction was part of our goal to
divest our non-strategic holdings. The impact of
the transaction on profit before appropriations and
taxes was approximately EUR 12.1 million for the
Partnera parent company and approximately EUR
7.5 million for the Partnera Group. The divestment
of holdings had a particularly significant impact
on the Group’s liquid assets, which amounted to
EUR 28.9 (6.7) million at the end of the financial
year. In addition, the Group’s parent company repaid
a loan of EUR 6.0 million from financial institutions
early in the year, which further strengthened the
balance sheet.
Partnera’s net sales for 2024 decreased compared to
2023, mainly due to the departure of KPA Unicon,
the business of which was included in the comparison figures for four months in 2023. KPA  Unicon
left the Group following its bankruptcy in May
2023. We continue to monitor Partnera’s rights in
connection with the acquisition and bankruptcy of
KPA Unicon.
The result of our associated company Nordic Option
improved year-on-year and was positive. Successes
included divestments from investments in Owatec
and 9Solution, among others. New investments
included Profilence and CSE Entertainment. As
previously announced, Partnera is investigating
options to divest the remaining non-strategic
holding in Nordic Option Oy.
Targets set high
In 2025, we will focus on measures to move forward
towards Foamit Group’s strategic targets for 2028 ;
net sales of EUR 100 million and an EBITDA level
of more than 20 percent. Developing productivity,
building additional capacity, expanding the
product and raw material portfolio and expanding
operations and supply through mergers and
acquisitions to new markets are possible ways of
accelerating growth and achieving the net sales and
profit goals. Our mission is to increase shareholder
value and build a sustainable future.