“The financial year 2024 was difficult for us, especially in Sweden. Fondia’s net sales for the financial year decreased by 1.8% compared to the comparison period. International net sales decreased by 9.7% compared to the comparison period, with Sweden decreasing by 15.2% and the Baltics increasing by 37.5%. In Finland, net sales increased by 0.5% compared to the comparison period. The Group’s operating profit (EBIT) weakened and was 5.3% (7.0) for the period, adjusted for nonrecurring items. Legal services sales were close to our targets for the financial year, but good sales performance was not enough to compensate for the loss of net sales from ongoing invoicing customers. The economic uncertainty was reflected in reduced resource reservations of our Legal Department Service (LDaaS) customers, a decrease in assignment business and, unfortunately, an increase in customer churn. On the other hand, the need for legal advice also increased in ESG and in employment law advice. Our strategic goal is to increase the share of our Legal Department Service (LDaaS) and other productised ongoing services in all our market areas and also in addition to increase the share of international business in our total net sales. All ongoing services remained at its previous level of 46% (46) of Fondia’s net sales. Total invoicing of Legal Department Service (LDaaS) customers and other customers covered by ongoing services represented 73% (76) of net sales. In Sweden, all ongoing services represented 41% (39) of net sales and in the Baltics, all ongoing services represented 34% (28) of net sales. In Finland, all ongoing services represented 46% (48) of net sales. Due to the problems encountered in Sweden, the share of international net sales in the Group’s total net sales decreased and was 23% (25).in the financial year. We are at an excellent level in delivering customer value and customer experience. The results of the customer satisfaction survey and the customer net promoter score (NPS) of 61 (61) showed that our service concept works, which is a good basis to develop our operations. During the financial year, the employee net promoter score (eNPS) decreased and was 19 (48). The result reflects our need to invest in the employee experience and to clarify our direction, which we worked on with our employees and customers in the strategy work. Our average productivity for the period decreased and was –1.2% compared to the comparison period. Behind the decline in productivity was our growth challenge and the volume of legal customer work especially in Sweden. At the beginning of the financial year, we launched a harmonised and updated brand identity to mark the 20th anniversary of our company. We also continued the development of the MyFondia platform and in addition piloted a number of AI applications to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of our services. Emma Ridderstad joined our Swedish subsidiary in August as Managing Director and member of the Group Management Team. At the end of the financial year, we launched a Group-wide savings programme, of which the change negotiations in the Finnish organisation were an integral part. Our aim is to improve the profitability of our business and to adjust our resourcing with the market situation. The financial year was disappointing for us in terms of results and market conditions had a negative impact on growth and results. Our Baltic business grew strongly, but this was not enough to compensate for a weak financial year in our Swedish business. Our Finnish business grew, but not sufficiently compared to our expectations. We have started required renewal and changes in our operations already during 2024. Our focus this year will be on profitability by putting customers at the heart of everything we do, improving employee satisfaction and completing strategic development projects. We will closely monitor possible changes in the market situation. When necessary, we respond quickly to changes as appropriate, without compromising the quality of our customer service or the good customer and employee experience."