“For Fortum, 2024 was a year dedicated to focusing on our
core businesses, optimising our best-in-class operations,
divesting non-core operations, and implementing efficiency
improvement actions. With these measures, among others,
we are building the foundation of preparedness for our future
growth. We continue to see robust underlying customer
demand which we believe reflects the power demand growth
longer term. Our goal is to be ready for the growth phase
while ensuring strong financial performance, even in a
turbulent operating environment.
In 2024, the power market was characterised by volatile but
lower power prices compared to the previous year. The cold
start to 2024 gave the Nordic spot price a strong beginning to
the year, particularly in Finland, with extreme hourly price
spikes reaching close to 1,900 EUR/MWh during the first
quarter. However, after the first quarter, the high share of
onshore wind power and high hydro inflows pressured the
Nordic spot prices until the end of the year. This was partly
offset by the ongoing recovery in Nordic power demand,
especially as non-industrial demand increased in 2024.
The lower Nordic spot power prices were reflected especially
in our Generation segment’s financial results throughout the
year. However, due to our versatile and competitive CO2-free
fleet, our achieved power price reached a good level in 2024
through successful hedging and physical optimisation. The
result improved in the Consumer Solutions and Other
Operations segments in 2024.
Supported by the divestment of our recycling and waste
business, our financial position continues to be strong with
very low leverage of 0.2 times and we continued to have
sufficient liquidity and credit line buffers at the end of the
year. During 2024, we were happy to have S&P Global Ratings
upgrade our long-term credit rating to BBB+ with Stable
Outlook and Fitch Ratings affirm our long-term rating of BBB
with Stable Outlook. We also introduced our Green Finance
Framework and signed our first green loan in June.
Based on our Group results and strong financial position,
Fortum’s Board of Directors is proposing to the Annual
General Meeting a dividend of EUR 1.40 per share comprising
EUR 0.90 corresponding to a 90% payout of comparable EPS
and a special dividend of EUR 0.50. In Fortum’s dividend
policy, the payout ratio is 60–90% of the Group’s comparable
EPS. In situations with strong balance sheet and low
investments, Fortum applies the upper end of the range of the
payout ratio. Through the proposed special dividend Fortum
activates its balance sheet and rectifies its current very
strong liquidity position. Adding the proposed dividend
payment to the net debt-to-comparable EBITDA at the end of
2024, it would be above 1.0 time. In February 2024, we clarified our strategic focus and targets
in response to the changed operating environment. At the
core of our strategy is our commitment to the clean transition.
Throughout 2024, we worked on our science-based climate
targets to have them validated by the international Science
Based Targets initiative (SBTi). In January 2025, we were
excited to introduce our ambitious SBTi-verified targets,
which include net-zero greenhouse gas emissions across our
value chain by 2040 and an 85% reduction in scope 1 and 2
emissions by 2030. Our coal exit target by the end of 2027, as
well as our targets for specific emissions and biodiversity,
remain unchanged. Regarding our strategic key performance indicators (KPIs) set
in 2024, our optimisation premium reached 8.7 EUR/MWh in
2024, thus slightly exceeding our annual target of 6–8 EUR/
MWh. We met our long-term hydro availability KPI but fell
short of our long-term nuclear availability target due to
unplanned and extended outages during the year. We are on
track to reach our targets for the hedged share of our rolling
10-year outright generation volume and the ready-to-build
pipeline for solar and onshore wind. Regarding the latter, we
have an approximately 5-GW pipeline of onshore wind and
solar projects in the permit process across the Nordic
countries, with more in early development. The pipeline
includes the development portfolio acquisition announced in
December 2024.
On our strategic priority to deliver reliable and clean energy,
in 2024 we focused on our core operations for power
generation and advanced several significant projects to better
meet the needs of the system, society and our customers. At
the Loviisa nuclear power plant, the lifetime extension until
2050 progressed well with our decisions to modernise the
low-pressure turbines and renew the main seawater pumps.
We also reached an important milestone in securing a reliable
Western alternative for our nuclear fuel supply as we loaded
the first batch of Westinghouse fuel to Loviisa in August. The
Espoo Clean Heat programme is making significant progress
at the Espoo and Kirkkonummi sites with future waste heat
offtake from the upcoming Microsoft data centres and at the
electricity-based plant in Nuijala, Espoo. As part of the
programme, we closed down our last coal-fired unit used for
district heat production in Finland, one year ahead of
schedule. In our renewables business, our Pjelax wind farm,
the third largest in Finland, was fully commissioned in the
second quarter and began its commercial operations through
the power purchase agreement (PPA) with Finnish Helen at
the beginning of July. In the fourth quarter, we made the
decision to invest EUR 100 million in decarbonisation of our
Czestochowa CHP plant in Poland.
On our strategic priority to drive decarbonisation in industries,
we started to develop several potential sites across Finland
that can be offered to our customers for data centre or
industrial use. On one of these sites, in Rauma, we started to
develop a site for a sustainable synthetic aviation fuel (eSAF)
plant together with Norsk e-Fuel and Port of Rauma. In the
fourth quarter, we took on the role as energy partner to
support a feasibility study exploring low-carbon aluminium
manufacturing opportunities in Kokkola and Kruunupyy,
Finland. The facility, if realised, would consume approximately
7 TWh of electricity annually. Additionally, we began to build
a 2-MW hydrogen pilot production plant in Loviisa.
Within the scope of our strategic priority to transform and
develop, we continued our efficiency improvement
programme with the target to gradually lower annual fixed
costs by EUR 100 million (excluding inflation) by the end of
2025 with a full run-rate from the beginning of 2026. In 2024,
we reduced our recurring fixed cost base by more than
EUR 60 million. Simultaneously, we have taken actions with
fixed cost effects to build our preparedness for future growth,
such as the renewables development and site development.
Also, the strategic review of the Circular Solutions’ businesses
progressed well during 2024. The recycling and waste
business, the turbine and generator services and the biobased
solutions business were divested. The total consideration for
the sale of the recycling and waste business amounted to
approximately EUR 800 million, and Fortum recorded a taxexempt capital gain of EUR 176 million in the fourth quarter.
In addition, Fortum successfully divested its stake in the
185-MW solar portfolio in India in the second quarter.
There have been public discussions about possible new
nuclear projects both in Sweden and Finland. At Fortum, we
see that the electrification of industry and transport, as well
as new clean industrial investments, require a balance of
different types of power and predictability in the coming
decades. As the share of production with intermittent
renewables increases, hydro power has a vital role in
balancing the energy system in the Nordics. A flexible system,
however, needs a stable foundation, which nuclear power
provides. Fortum is concluding its two-year feasibility study to
explore prerequisites for new nuclear power in the near term.
Regarding the economic conditions for new nuclear, we have
previously noted that the current energy prices in the Nordics
do not facilitate profitable investments without societal
participation. At Fortum, we consider it positive that the
Swedish and Finnish governments are investigating financing
and electricity market mechanisms for new nuclear power
projects. However, we are still far from making any potential
investment decisions. We are also starting a feasibility study
to explore possibilities for flexible pumped-storage hydro
power in Sweden to provide much needed flexible
balancing power.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to all our
employees for their dedication and hard work throughout the
year. I also extend my thanks to our customers, partners,
shareholders and other stakeholders for their continued trust
in us as we strive to power a world where people, businesses
and nature thrive together.”
