Consistent profitability development
through strategy implementation
The year 2024 demonstrated that
with focus and dedication, Glaston
can progress steadily in its strategy execution even if the markets
aren’t favorable. Our customers and
partners around the world value the
technology and process know-how
that Glaston offers. Complemented
by our service capabilities, it builds a
solid foundation for Glaston’s growth
opportunities that arise from new
product innovations, services and
upgrade products.
Throughout 2024, the market
environment was challenging. The
Architectural market remained soft,
and EMEA was particularly affected by
the weaker market environment.The
Americas was more stable. The Mobility market developed well, mainly in
China, supported by the transition to
electric vehicles. In addition to operational efficiencies, we can see that
concentrating all Mobility pre-processing production to China has benefitted us as the region contributed to
order intake with a 22% share.
Overall, Glaston’s full-year 2024
order intake was down 8% reflecting the lower construction activity in
several regions, which also affected
net sales development. For the fullyear, net sales at EUR 217.9 million was
recorded. Insulating Glass and Mobility
Technologies showed positive growth
figures.
Despite the cautious markets, the
stable progress in comparable EBITA
continued as we started to benefit
from the implemented and ongoing
structural cost-saving actions taken
in 2024. Full-year comparable EBITA
improved and was EUR 15.3 million
(7.0% margin).
Taking the next steps in strategy
execution
In February, the timeframe for achieving the strategic targets was adjusted
from 2025 to the medium-term (3−5
years) except for the emissions
reduction targets with a timeframe
up to 2032. Net sales and comparable
return on capital employed (ROCE)
targets were slightly adjusted. The
other targets remained the same.
Our group-wide safety target is
zero accidents. In 2024, our performance improved slightly and our
accident frequency rate LTIFR was
5.7 (6.3) as the number of accidents
decreased by one to nine. The direction is right, but the numbers show
that we need to continue our systematic safety work.
Customer satisfaction measured by
Net Promoter Score (NPS) continued
at a high level and was 64 (62). We will
continue innovating together with
our customers, and focus on further
developing the industry-leading
customer experience. Our employee
engagement improved to 76 from
70 and the target, 75 out of 100, was
achieved. To enhance our progress
in being a good employer, a new DEI
roadmap (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion)
was drawn up. The DEI roadmap aims
to create a diverse, equal and inclusive
work environment for all employees regardless of their background
or minority. One of the goals of the
roadmap is to increase the proportion
of women among the personnel and
the company's senior management.
With the organizational changes
done in the final quarter of the year,
we aim to strengthen the customer
experience, especially in services,
enhance collaboration between
factories, and boost technology
development with an extended focus
on continued positive profitability
development and reaching additional
operational efficiencies in the coming
years. Dedication to sustainability and
technology leadership
Glaston is committed to keeping its
technology leadership position and
plans to continue investments in
product development and service
capabilities. In 2024, we introduced
to the market many innovations that
enhance our customers’ capabilities
to improve their production efficiency,
increase energy efficiency and the
level of automation.
Our ambition is to remain at the
forefront of moving the industry
towards a more sustainable future,
and we focus on developing and
delivering sustainable, upgradeable, and energy-efficient products.
We continue to believe that global
megatrends e.g. fight against climate
change support our business in the
long term.
We want to systematically progress
on our sustainability journey. As one of
the first glass processing technology
companies, Glaston’s greenhouse
gas emissions reduction targets were
validated by the international Science
Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We
have also been assessed by EcoVadis.
In 2024, our results improved in all
areas and Glaston is ranked among
the top 17% of companies assessed
globally.
2024 was another busy year for
the company and I want to thank the
Glaston team for their contribution
throughout the year. The high level
of competence of our people in their
fields of expertise is important for
keeping Glaston competitive.
I also want to thank our customers,
shareholders and other stakeholders
for your continuous trust and support.
