Gofore’s net sales contracted in 2024 for the first time after more than
15 years of profitable growth. The net sales ultimately settled at 186.2
million euros, which is 1.6% lower than in 2023. Profitability remained at
a good level, with adjusted EBITA at 12.8%.
In a weaker economic environment, customer demand was lower
throughout the year compared to previous year. We refrained from the
fiercest price competition, which hindered growth but protected profitability.
At the beginning of 2024, we believed in a quicker economic recovery than what occurred. However, customers in both the private and
public sectors have continued to take a cautious approach to investments.
Despite this, we managed to grow our business moderately in our
domestic market in Finland, particularly among public sector customers and in consulting services. In contrast, we suffered a contraction in
net sales in new areas, such as outside Finland and in the more cyclical
industrial customer base.
We successfully continued to implement our customer strategy
based on strategic partnerships. As a result, customer satisfaction
even increased slightly despite the challenging savings situations. The
number of large customers (>1 million euros/year in billing) continued
to grow. We were pleased to notice that many of our customers value
a long-term, broadly serving, and responsible partner even in tougher
times.
At the same time, it was significantly difficult to open new accounts.
In the public sector, the competitive situation was tough, as the open
nature of its procurement attracts supply when the market is generally
quieter. The number of competitors increased, and price competition due
to oversupply remained fierce, which complicated our growth during the
year. Savings programs were implemented in almost all customer groups,
cutting ongoing projects and postponing new initiatives.
However, we see that we strengthened our positions during the past
year. We navigated through a difficult year together with our staff and
managed to avoid the widespread layoffs and redundancies common in
the industry. This reflects the healthy state of Gofore’s structures and the
good resilience of both them and our personnel.
We believe this also played a role in our continued rise in the
employer comparison within the IT consulting sector, with Gofore being
recognized as the most attractive IT consulting employer in Universum’s
professional survey.
The last quarter of the year continued the trend of gradual growth
in capacity that turned in the second half of the year. In the latter part
of the year—when customer projects typically face the most urgent
deadlines—the utilisation rate also reached its highest level of the year.
December was a very fragmented month this year due to long holidays.
This significantly affected the overall results for the quarter.
At the end of 2024, we announced our updated long-term targets:
we aim in net sales of 500 million euros by 2030, while maintaining our
ability to be a profitability leader in the industry. Regarding the market,
we have not seen a sudden improvement at the beginning of the year,
but we expect a gradual and long-term phase of demand recovery. We
are, however, decidedly pursuing new growth, including through our
new, more customer-oriented organization.
The fundamentals of our business and structures are on a healthy
foundation. In our thinking, Gofore is and will remain a growth company.