A financially strong year: revenue
increased significantly, operating
profit almost doubled GRK had a successful year in terms of all financial indicators. Our strong growth continued, with our revenue
increasing by approximately 33% to EUR 728.6 million.
We have successfully increased our revenue in Finland,
Sweden and Estonia.
Due to favourable weather conditions, we were able to
continue many projects efficiently until the end of the
year, which had a positive impact on GRK’s revenue and
profit performance.
Our operating profit increased significantly and reached
EUR 45.2 million. All of our country companies have
managed to improve their profitability.
Our cash position was strong, our return on capital
employed was very good, and our equity ratio improved.
The strongest growth and profit performance were
achieved in Sweden. The most notable project was the
earthworks and foundation reinforcement contract at
the Stegra AB plant site and the concrete foundation
contracts we have won in addition to the previously
announced contract.
At the end of December, our order backlog stood at a
record high EUR 845.6 million. We had the opportunity to
start a number of significant new projects in 2024. Examples of these include the construction of the Hailuoto
causeway, the Espoo City Rail Link contracts, the
improvement of national road 9, and earthworks for Finngrid’s main grid cable connection in Helsinki. In Estonia,
we won a new railway electrification project and also one
significant earthworks contract related to the Rail Baltica
railway project.
Work well done and new projects
We have received excellent feedback from clients on
several of our projects. One great demonstration of the
quality of work that GRK’s employees do is our track
maintenance professionals, who contribute to keeping
the railway network fit for traffic. GRK has been responsible for the maintenance of the superstructure and
safety equipment of the Uusimaa railway for four years.
Thanks to the extension option, we can now continue
maintenance in the busy Uusimaa region until early 2027.
While we have several large projects in our order
backlog, we also have many smaller projects that represent a significant share of our revenue.
Last autumn, we completed our part of the Kalasatama–Pasila tramway project. This meant that one successful project has now been completed, but there
are more to come. We are currently involved in tramway
projects in Turku and Vantaa. Both of the projects are
currently still in the development phase, and will be fully
included in our order backlog once the implementation
phase begins.
The market situation remains uncertain. Although there
have been unfortunate news concerning the construction sector, from our perspective the situation is favourable. Forecasts point to slight growth in the infrastructure
construction market in all of our operating countries.
We updated our strategy in the latter part of the year,
and I am confident that there will continue to be interesting business opportunities in infrastructure construction. The green transition, urbanisation, the maintenance
backlog and defence investments will support the infrastructure construction market. We intend to seize these
opportunities.
Sustainability has progressed towards objectives
GRK’s sustainability goals are outlined in the Group’s
strategy, with the strategic intent of leading the way in
sustainable construction. The performance indicators
include safety, customer satisfaction, commitment to the
Circular Economy Green Deal, the growth of the environmental technology business, zero adverse environmental
incidents, and net zero emissions from GRK’s own operations by 2035.
GRK made a commitment to the voluntary Circular
Economy Green Deal in 2024. The signatories to the Green
Deal set targets for reducing the consumption of natural
resources and promoting a low-carbon circular economy.
GRK’s targets include tripling the company’s annual use of
recycled materials to 1.5 million tonnes by 2035.
The sustainability rating agency EcoVadis assessed
GRK’s operations for the first time in 2024. GRK received
a score of 54/100 in the overall assessment. Based on the
EcoVadis assessment, we currently rank in the middle of
our industry. The aim is to improve our position by developing responsible sourcing, among other measures.
Safety and health are the most important
Unfortunately, there were also dark moments in a year
that was marked by financial success.
The most devastating incident happened in the
autumn, when a fatal occupational accident occurred at
our rail construction site in Tikkurila. Although the accident was caused by human error, it does not diminish the
sorrow it has caused. GRK has a long-standing focus on
the prevention of occupational accidents, but the fatal
incident further underscores the importance of safety.
A big thank you to everyone
The new year will be my last as CEO of GRK.
In early January 2025, we announced that a planned
change of leadership is under way at GRK. Mika Mäenpää,
the CEO of our Swedish country company, has been
selected as my successor. He will take up his post by the
end of September at the latest. I will support Mika in the
transfer of duties, and as necessary, until the end of the
year.
I wish Mika every success in his new position when he
takes over as CEO. In any case, GRK is in strong shape,
and we have plenty of great projects in our order backlog.
Above all, the credit for this belongs to our customers and
our personnel. 