2024 was a strong year for Harvia. We succeeded in
turning our revenue back to growth after two years of
decline, with a double-digit increase of 16.4% to EUR
175.2 million. The positive development was driven
especially by the strong organic growth in North
America and APAC & MEA as well as the acquisition
of ThermaSol.
We met our long-term financial target level in 2024
also in terms of profitability and balance sheet.
Adjusted operating profit reached EUR 37.1 million,
making up 21.2% of the revenue. Leverage was 1.3 −
well below the company’s long-term financial target
of under 2.5.
I want to thank the entire team Harvia and our
partners for their good work through 2024.
Harvia updated its long-term financial targets and
strategy in May to reflect the company’s strategic
role, which the company defines as “Shaping the
global sauna market so that everyone has a reason
to experience sauna”. We want to be an active
market maker to grow the global sauna market
and create exciting innovations and sustainable
solutions while maintaining strong profitability and
operational performance.
The execution of the updated strategy progressed
well during the year. The acquisition of U.S.
steam solutions manufacturer ThermaSol in July
strengthened our position in North America and
increased our capabilities especially in steam and in
digital solutions. The acquisition is also well aligned
with our strategy and aim of being an active industry
consolidator. The integration of ThermaSol has
started off well, and we are eager to capture all the
growth opportunities and cost synergies that the
acquisition is estimated to bring us. The market environment remained mixed during the
year. The market conditions were favorable in North
America and APAC & MEA, where the awareness of
sauna and its health benefits continued to increase.
In Continental Europe, the market remained rather
challenging despite positive development especially
in the professional and more high-end segments. In
Northern Europe, the market has been difficult for a
long time. This is true particularly for Finland, where
low activity in the construction and housing market
as well as weak consumer confidence put significant
pressure on our sales throughout the year.
Throughout the year, Harvia’s business operations
responded well to the mixed market conditions and
changes in the operating environment, including the
high demand in North America especially during the
winter season and political strikes in Finland during the
first quarter. To meet market demand, we deliberately
increased our inventories in the fall ahead of the highdemand winter season especially in North America and
continued to build up the inventory until November.
In the course of the year, we made several investments
into our production facilities to further improve our
operational efficiency and production capacity. We
also continued to strengthen our organization and
drive portfolio development. During the fourth quarter,
we launched several new products to the market, and
I am glad to see that our innovation pipeline keeps
developing well. In 2025, we will remain fully focused on driving
profitable growth and strengthening our position as
the global sauna market leader. Reaching our longterm profitability target of over 20% adjusted EBIT
is very important for us. North America and APAC &
MEA continue to be our largest growth drivers and
will be the key priority of our growth efforts also in
the future. In Europe, we are working hard to achieve
higher levels of sales, even if the market conditions
have not provided us with any tailwind. Strengthening
our portfolio and digital capabilities has a key role in
building more innovative and sustainable offering and
securing our future success.
As a global company, we are closely monitoring
geopolitical and macroeconomic developments,
such as tightening trade policies. Increasing tariffs
in the United States may also have an impact on
Harvia. However, Harvia is well positioned in the
United States, especially compared to many of our
competitors, as a clear majority of end products
we sell in the United States are also manufactured
domestically. This reduces Harvia’s exposure to
potential U.S. tariffs.
Year 2025 is the 75th anniversary year for Harvia.
We are proud of our rich heritage as a pioneer in the
sauna business and are looking forward to the next
chapter of Harvia’s development. Harvia starts the
year from an excellent position.