Herantis’ HER-096 development program continued to progress rapidly in 2024. We initiated
a Phase 1b clinical trial, in which the HER-096
drug candidate is being administered to patients
with Parkinson’s disease for the first time. We
also received significant support from the leading
Parkinson’s charities who fully finance the Phase
1b trial. The rapid progress and promising results
have also promoted partnership discussions.
2025 will be an exciting year! Herantis had one main goal for 2024: to start the HER-096
Phase 1b clinical trial. In early 2024, we designed the study and
submitted the clinical trial application to competent authorities
in Finland. After receiving the approval, we started recruiting
subjects in September and already in November we announced
the completion of the first part of the trial. We received encouraging new information about the behavior of HER-096 in the
human body, in particular additional information about the
appropriate dose level and regimen supporting the preparation of the Phase 2 study. In January 2025, the Phase 1b trial
progressed to the second part, where the HER-096 investigational drug will be administered to Parkinson's patients for the
first time. From the placebo-controlled second part of the trial,
we will receive significant new information about the safety
of repeated doses of HER-096 and biomarkers related to the
potential treatment response. In addition, we will monitor the
symptoms of Parkinson's patients during the four-week dosing
period and the following four-week observation period, both
using clinical assessment and a wearable device that continuously monitors motor symptoms.
Obtaining financing of 3.6 million Euros from the two leading
Parkinson’s charities, the Michael J. Fox Foundation and
Parkinson’s UK, after a comprehensive review of our science,
underlines the groundbreaking potential of HER-096. These
organizations are closely following our progress in the
HER-096 development program with great interest. The
same applies to the pharmaceutical industry. We have been in
discussions with dozens of pharmaceutical companies about
partnership and have received positive feedback. Herantis is
now among a limited group of companies worldwide that are
preparing for Phase 2 clinical trials with a drug candidate that
aims to stop or slow the progression of Parkinson's disease.
We believe that if the results of the Phase 1b clinical trial are
in line with our expectations, Herantis has a good opportunity
to sign a significant collaboration agreement.
I would like to thank our highly professional team, partners,
shareholders, and especially the study subjects involved in
the HER-096 clinical trials for a very successful year in 2024.
Now we look forward to the topline results in the third quarter
of 2025!