SUCCESSFUL EXECUTION OF
CARGOTEC’S TRANSFORMATION
ACCORDING TO PLAN
The year 2024 was a successful one for Cargotec.
We executed the transformation of the company according
to the targets set by the Board in 2023. In 2024, we
reached all our major goals for the year, continued the
good business performance, completed the separation of
Hiab and Kalmar, and found a solution for MacGregor.
The market environment remained complex throughout the
year. Expectations on lower interest rates and uncertainty
in some of Hiab’s key geographies and industries delayed
customer decision making. Orders received increased by
3 percent from the previous year to EUR 1,509 million
.
The order growth was driven by the Americas. The order
book declined by 19 percent, amounting to EUR 648
million at the end of the year.
Following the order book development, our sales
decreased by 8 percent from the previous year’s level
and amounted to EUR 1,647 million. In our strategic focus
areas, North America and services, our sales continued
to grow.
Despite lower sales, we were able to improve our relative
profitability with successful management of inflationary
pressures as well as sourcing and supply chain actions.
Our comparable operating profit decreased by 1 percent
and amounted to EUR 217 million corresponding to
13.2 percent of sales. Good progress in sustainability,
safety and employee satisfaction
Greenhouse gas emissions for continuing operations went
down by 21 percent in 2024, compared to 2023. This is
a good achievement. While the reduction is mostly due
to decreased sales, I am nevertheless pleased to see
the impact that our own climate work is starting to have, especially through increased eco portfolio sales over
the years.
Our biggest impact in reducing greenhouse gas emission
lies in our product portfolio. We continuously expand our
eco portfolio offering with new innovations and solutions
that help our customers bring down their emissions. In
2024, we launched several new eco portfolio products that
will help us keep these emissions down when sales start
to go up.
In 2024, we prioritised health and safety through
various initiatives. As an example, Hiab’s “Dare to Care”
programme empowers employees to actively participate
in building a safer workplace. Hiab personnel were also
encouraged to actively use their dedicated safety reporting
tool. With these and other actions, we met our safety
target in 2024.
Another positive finding can be made in our 2024
Compass personnel survey results. Compass provides
valuable information on the work-related feelings and
thoughts of our employees.
In Compass, we saw a strong response rate of over
82 percent (a significant increase from 2023, excluding
Kalmar) and improved favourability ratings across Hiab,
MacGregor, and group functions. The personnel sentiment
during and after the transformation promises a good
journey for Hiab and MacGregor going forward.
Two-year transformation project
executed as planned
In addition to the good business performance, we have
executed the two-year transformation project according
to our plans. Among the transformation milestones is
the listing of Kalmar in the beginning of July 2024. The
listing was completed only 14 months after the demerger
announcement and Kalmar is now fully separated from
Cargotec.
After a successful turnaround of the MacGregor business,
we achieved another major milestone in November 2024,
when we signed an agreement to sell MacGregor to funds
managed by Triton. The enterprise value of the transaction
is EUR 480 million. Closing of the transaction is expected
to take place by 1 July 2025 at the latest.
Name change from Cargotec to
Hiab starts a new journey
Cargotec’s transformation will be finalised in 2025, when
we close the sale of MacGregor and Hiab will continue its
growth and development as the remaining standalone part
of the group. Hence, the Board is proposing to Cargotec’s
General Meeting of shareholders that the company’s name
would be changed from Cargotec to Hiab with an effective
date of 1 April 2025.
I am convinced that Hiab will have a bright future as a
standalone company. Hiab has a clear strategy that was
revealed at the Capital Markets Day in May 2024, and
a motivated and experienced leadership team in place.
Furthermore, Hiab’s strategy execution is already well
underway2
.
As announced in May 2024, when the company name
change becomes effective, Scott Phillips would become
the new CEO of the renamed company and I would
step down from the CEO position. I would like to take
this opportunity to thank the shareholders for the trust
and Board of Directors for great cooperation as well
as partners and customers for making 2024 another
successful year for the company. I also want to thank
current and former colleagues and all our employees for
their work and cooperation during our transformation
journey and business performance in 2024.