Strong development continued in
2024; HKFoods showing clear growth
in net sales and comparable EBIT
In 2024, HKFoods continued its determined work to improve profitability and
strengthen its balance sheet. A major restructuring was completed for the time
being and the proceeds from the sale of businesses have been used to repay
the company's loans. HKFoods' net debt was significantly reduced.
HKFoods’ continuing operations developed strongly in 2024, with both net sales
and comparable EBIT growing significantly. The company’s net sales from continuing
operations in 2024 increased by 7.4 per cent to EUR 1,001.8 (933.0) million.
In the fourth quarter the comparable EBIT was 3.9 (1.2) per cent of net sales.
The comparable EBIT margin for the whole year was 2.8 (2.2) per cent.
The company’s EBIT target is 4 per cent.
HKFoods increased its profitability also in the fourth quarter through successful
commercial measures, production efficiency measures and cost savings.
Retail sales developed positively with a comprehensive product range and
successful Christmas season, which improved the sales mix and profitability.
Our food service sector has managed to grow its share in a declining market.
The structure of export sales has improved due to increased sales of ready-to-use
products. Investments increase added value
The company's investment capacity has improved.
We have focused our investments on strategic and
efficiency investments. The investments in the Rauma
and Forssa units have been completed, and our
investment in the manufacture of ready-to-eat products
in our Eura unit is progressing as well as the investment
in the ready meal production of our Vantaa unit.
With this investment, we will increase our meal
preparation capacity and develop new high-quality
meals for consumers' various food moments.
Over the past two and a half years, we have been
assessing the position of our businesses within the
Group in order to increase our financial flexibility.
We have improved HKFoods’ profitability and
strengthened our balance sheet through the sale of
the Baltic business, which was completed in August
2023. The sale of the Swedish business was closed at
the end of March 2024. Our major restructuring was
completed at the end of October 2024, when the sale
of the Danish subsidiary ROSE Poultry A/S to
the Dutch Plukon Food Group was closed.
The divestments have strengthened HKFoods’ balance
sheet as planned and the proceeds have been used
to repay the company's loans. The company’s net debt
decreased by EUR 138.1 million to EUR 149.8 (287.9)
million from a year ago. Our net gearing ratio has
decreased to 69.5 per cent. As a result of this reduction,
our net financing costs have fallen by EUR 7.5 million
during 2024. In the financing negotiations in summer
2024, we secured financial continuity until early 2027.
Renewed vision: The most valued
partner of food moments
According to HKFoods' vision, updated at the end of
2024, we want to be the most valued partner of food
moments. This means working together with all our
employees to meet the changing needs of consumers
and customers by creating sustainable, tasty and
nutritious solutions for all meaningful food moments.
It is a collaborative effort with customers, consumers,
contract farmers and other company partners.
Material sustainability issues identified
The company’s strategy affects all sustainability topics
identified as material to HKFoods; the most important
ones in the medium to long term are climate change,
consumer health and safety and animal welfare.
These will be pursued with even greater determination.
During 2025, we will update our responsibility
programme to better address the sustainability topics
that we have identified as material to our stakeholders.
The wellbeing and safety of our employees will remain
at the heart of our responsibility programme.
Our key target is to be a safe and healthy workplace
for our own employees and the partners working in
our units. Improving safety at work is something that
will continue to require our continued commitment and
action together with all our employees. We are running
a quality culture project to improve the quality of our
operations and products.
Developing a sustainable food chain requires longterm commitment. We at HKFoods are committed to
development. In addition, we are committed to
the UN Global Compact sustainability initiative and
are contributing to the UN Sustainable Development
Goals as part of our sustainability work.
Efficiency programme focuses on
production and commercial measures
Following the completion of our major restructuring,
we are now focusing on implementing our long-term
strategy by improving the competitiveness of our
core business and the profitability of our operations in
Finland. Our efficiency programme, launched at the end
of 2024, aims to significantly improve our performance.
The programme involves improving production
efficiency and strengthening commercial measures.
Our future is now on firmer ground
The measures taken in 2024 have taken the company
to the right direction. The hard work has paid off and
our future is now on firmer ground than it has been for
many years. I am confident that our good development
will continue also during this year.
I would like to thank our own people, our customers,
our contractors and our other partners.
We are well-positioned to move forward inspired by
our new vision.
