“The Group’s net sales and operating profit for the financial year decreased significantly from the corresponding period
in the previous year. The market situation in construction and the economic outlook remained very weak throughout the
year. This created significant uncertainty among customers and their construction start decisions.
Due to the weak order intake in 2023, the Group started this year with a historically low order book. The beginning of the
year continued being quiet, but because of the additional campaigns, the sales volumes were able to grow moderately in
the end of the year so the group will start the new year with a higher order book than the previous year.
There were large regional differences in domestic demand. New orders accumulated especially in the Southern Finland
region, exceeding the rest of the country.
In terms of export regions, Asia successfully increased new sales and net sales both in project exports and consumer business. In other export regions, the previously emerging demand ultimately remained surprisingly weak.
Despite the challenging operating environment, the Group has continued to advance selected strategic development projects, with only minor adjustments to their focus areas. One good example of this is the Honka Rock & Star leisure range,
which was and launched for sale in the spring and early autumn.
The Group's export activities focused on developing the sales and distribution network, supporting sales activities, and
acquiring new customers. In the Japanese subsidiary, the implementation of the renewed growth strategy was continued
and the organization was strengthened by hiring e.g. country manager
3
Despite the challenging market situation and layoffs during the rewiev period, we invested in developing the well-being of
the personnel and stronger communication between supervisors, personnel and the personnel team. I would like to thank
all Honka people for their commitment and flexibility.
At the beginning of the review period, the replacement investments in production machinery for the gluer and the new
laminated timber plane were completed at the Karstula production plant. Currently, a production machinery investment
is underway for a new non-settling log production line, which will be commissioned in the spring. With the investment,
Honkarakenne will introduce the most advanced non-settling log in the industry to the market, whose improved properties will benefit our consumer and project customers. Honkarakenne has received funding for this investment package
following an investment subsidy decision from the Central Finland ELY Center.
Competent personnel, investments made during the downturn, Group's strong balance sheet and financial position guarantee us a good starting point for growth and good profitability when the market recovers. During the coming months, we
expect the market to increasingly pick up as inflation moderates and interest rates continue to decline. Customers, representatives, partners, and personnel can count on Honkarakenne's excellent reliability and security of supply also in the
future.” 
