Solid year in a gradually
improved market
For Huhtamaki, 2024 was a solid year, with improved safety
performance and increased profitability. In the first half of the
year, demand was muted in many markets. The second half saw
gradual recovery, with variations across categories and regions.
Demand for pre-packed food, especially egg packaging, increased,
and flexible packaging saw gains in a volatile market. Food
on-the-go volumes remained subdued, particularly for coffee
chains, due to high prices caused by inflation. The North American
foodservice market performed better than other regions. The
ongoing Middle East conflict affected global brands in some
Middle Eastern and Asian markets throughout the year.
For the full year 2024, comparable net sales remained at the
previous year’s level. Sales prices decreased due to a passthrough of lower raw material prices, while volumes increased
slightly. Despite the muted topline development, our adjusted
EBIT increased by 6% and the margin increased to 10.1%. Free
cash flow reached EUR 216 million, driven by higher profit and
lower investments, still investing in growing the profitable core.
On the other hand, free cash flow in the comparison period was
supported by a material decrease in working capital.
Throughout the year, we made progress on the strategic priorities.
Our main focus was on improving competitiveness. Here, our
key initiatives were built around our program to achieve EUR
100 million in cost savings. The program contributed to our
performance throughout the year, and achieved savings of
appr. EUR 76 million. The actions we took early in the program
supported achieving the planned savings at an accelerated pace.
The cost savings were essential to compensate for cost inflation.
We expect to achieve the EUR 100 million savings target and
close the program ahead of schedule, and with lower costs than
originally anticipated.
While focusing on competitiveness, we continued to invest
in innovation. We introduced new paperboard solutions with
reduced plastic coating and paperboard-based packaging
for FMCG products like ice cream, replacing plastic. We also
expanded production of recyclable flexible packaging. These
innovations support our sustainability agenda. We also made
progress in our sustainability performance, for example, by
increasing our use of renewable energy. Sustainability remains a
top priority moving forward.
We have also strengthened our balance sheet. At the end of
the year, our net debt to adjusted EBITDA was at the lower end
of our target range of 2–3x, allowing for organic and inorganic
investments. Based on our positive financial development, the
Board of Directors proposes a dividend of EUR 1.10 per share. If
approved, this would mark the 16th consecutive year of dividend
growth, highlighting the long-term success of our stable business.
We have a strong foundation to reach our financial ambitions and
continue to deliver on our strategic priorities.
I am excited to have taken on the position as President and
CEO of Huhtamaki. I know the company well and have always
appreciated its ability to innovate, develop and drive world
class commercial and operational results. I am happy to see an
improving trend in 2024 and am determined to drive performance
improvement. This is made possible by the dedication of our
committed teams. I want to thank our employees, customers,
suppliers, and all other stakeholders for their collaboration
and trust.