Confident in our ability to
continue delivering strong results.
2024 was a successful year for Incap, with our performance
aligning well with our plans. We have effectively navigated
through the challenges of the previous years and have now
reached a new normal with our largest customer’s destocking
exercise finalized. While many of our peers faced similar
challenges in 2024 as we did in 2023, we had already overcome
them and continued to grow our EBIT quarter-to-quarter, as
anticipated. I want to extend my gratitude to our team for their
dedication and hard work, which led to these great results.
Our revenue in 2024 was EUR 230.1 million, with the fourth quarter
contributing EUR 59.3 million. Our 2024 results were driven by
new customer acquisitions, increased sales to existing ones, and
cross-selling opportunities from our acquisitions. The successful
integration and strong performance of Incap US, along with Incap
India’s newest factory ramping up its production capacity, were
significant contributors to the increase in revenue. We continuously
improved our efficiency and invested in the latest technology, such
as advanced SMT machinery in Slovakia and UK. We maintained
good customer dialogue by for example organising events in
Slovakia and Estonia, and our teams participated in various
cooperation events, trade shows, and training sessions.
Our fourth quarter EBIT was EUR 8.6 million, representing 14.4% of
revenue, and our full-year 2024 EBIT was EUR 29.2 million, or 12.7%
of revenue. We achieved approximately 40% higher revenue and
132% higher profitability compared to the same period in previous
year mainly thanks to the higher production volumes in Incap India.
These figures highlight our successful operational model and agility.
Furthermore, we have been focusing on our global cooperation and
driving synergies between different units at Incap, to benefit our
customers and enhance client engagement.
Throughout 2024, we continued to advance our commitment
to sustainable business practices. We have prepared for CSRD
reporting and are ready to comply with the new standards. In
parallel, we updated our Sustainability Programme and set targets
for 2025. Significant investments were made to support our
goals, including the installation of solar panels at Incap India and
improvements in energy efficiency across all units.
Looking ahead, we expect a somewhat cautious start for the year
2025, as the market is anticipating the impact of the changes related
to tariffs, taxes and geopolitical challenges, mostly linked to the
new US administration. However, we estimate that our revenue and
operating profit for 2025 will be higher than in 2024. As a growth
company with a strong long-term strategy, we are committed
to both organic growth and growth through M&A. To achieve our
organic growth targets, we have invested in our production facilities
and the latest technologies, enabling us to serve modern industries
and businesses effectively.
Despite the market uncertainties, we remain optimistic about the
future while closely monitoring these developments and their
impacts. We have not been significantly impacted by the slower
economy in the Nordic electronics manufacturing industry, as we
operate only one factory in the region and have a limited exposure
to the Nordic market. Therefore, our diverse global customer base
enables us to continue growing and we see significant opportunities
in various geographies, which support our positive outlook for the
future.
We are confident in our ability to continue delivering strong results
and creating value for our shareholders. Our financial position
remains solid, and we will keep pursuing opportunities that align
with our goals.