In 2024, Inderes’ revenue grew by 7% and EBITA by 17%.
Cash flow from operating activities after investments grew
by 106% to 2.8 MEUR. Our ability to generate strong cash
flow again enables a growing dividend and strategic growth
investments. The fourth quarter was weak, as expected, due
to timing between quarters, expenses incurred in late 2024
and the weak revenue development in Sweden. As a whole,
second half of the year improved from the previous year.
The largest businesses, Equity Research and Events,
remained in single-digit growth in a market we estimated to
decline in 2024. The Software business achieved several
breakthroughs and strong growth of 40%. This is an example
of the organization’s ability to maintain the discipline to
make good investments in long-term growth initiatives, even
when it requires compromising short-term profitability.
Recent successes have given us the courage to accelerate
our efforts and grow the Software team already in late 2024.
In the fourth quarter, a leading European IR event provider
chose Videosync as its online events platform. The
agreement is commercially important and shows that we
have made the right choices in the global competition of
event platforms. Videosync is already by far the most
common platform for IR events in the Nordics and, going
forward, also more widely in Europe. Our proprietary
technology scales and connects investors and listed
companies increasingly internationally.
In Denmark, Inderes’ strategic partner HC Andersen
Capital's (HCA) revenue grew over 20% despite the very
difficult market. HCA has successfully expanded its IR
offering with the support of Inderes. Each of Inderes’ main
products now has paying customers in Denmark.
In Sweden, we are making a change of pace after two years
following the acquisition. The results have not been
sufficient. We are updating our sales strategy and
reorganizing around sales. We are strengthening the
autonomy of our product lines to identify clearer focus areas
and to get in to the customers.
In Finland, Inderes' foundation is solid, and growth was
moderate even though the market declined in 2024. I remain
optimistic regarding the revitalization of the IPO market. We
continue to see signs that projects are being concretely
launched.
Based on the lessons learned so far on the
internationalization journey, we will refine our strategy
during the spring, and the updated strategy will be
presented at a Capital Markets Day in May. It is already
clear that from an international perspective, our markets are
full of dysfunctional structures waiting to be disrupted and
exposed to more efficient competition. Almost 80% of listed
SMEs do not have analyst coverage in Europe. Investors do
not have equal access to information about companies. Too
low liquidity is a shared problem of both listed companies
and investors.
This was our third fiscal year as a listed company. The listing
has been the right stepping stone for us to take the
company to the next level. Thank you to the Inderes team,
community, customers and owners for the trust in the
journey so far.