A defining year for Kalmar
The year 2024 marked a historic
year for Kalmar as the demerger of
Cargotec and listing of Kalmar on
Nasdaq Helsinki were successfully
completed. The day of our listing
was one of remarkable pride and
celebration, not only in Helsinki at
our new headquarters and at the
iconic bell-ringing ceremony, but
also at Kalmar sites globally, where
our teams gathered to celebrate
this new chapter as an independent
company.
The financial performance for the full year was solid,
despite the rapidly changing operating landscape. In
2024, we managed to generate stable revenues and a
resilient margin by leveraging Kalmar’s leading position
in the market and driving excellence in our operations
despite the slower market activity and lower sales
volumes in 2024 compared to previous year.
Our focus on our three strategic pillars remained
strong throughout the year. We continued to invest in
sustainable innovations in the area of decarbonised
and electric equipment and intelligent solutions. This
included for example the launch of a new electric
empty container handler, the unveiling of the Kalmar
Ottawa T2 Electric Terminal Tractor and the signing
of a joint development agreement with Forterra for
autonomous terminal tractors. We have also decided
to expand our Innovation Centre in Ljungby, Sweden,
by building a world class test center which will
enable us to conduct more comprehensive testing
and development of our equipment and technologies.
Expanding our portfolio of low and zero-emission
equipment is crucial to further drive decarbonisation
of the material handling industry, as the use of
Kalmar’s products accounts for the biggest share
of its value-chain emissions. Our wide eco portfolio
is also increasingly important for our customers,
reflected in the strong performance of our eco
portfolio sales. In 2024, eco portfolio sales accounted for 41% of Kalmar’s total sales, which highlights our
commitment to sustainable solutions.
To further contribute to limiting the global
temperature rise to 1.5°C, we also committed to
setting near- and long-term emission reduction
targets in line with science-based net-zero with the
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
We also continued to drive service growth by
expanding our service offerings to enhance customer
satisfaction and build long-term relationships. One
key development was the introduction of MyKalmar
2.0 digital ecosystem, which provides our customers
greater visibility and control over their maintenance
activities, parts ordering and equipment performance
with a single point of access and a user-friendly
design. We have also further improved our global
presence and added more service technicians to our
workforce during the year. The services business
remains to be a very attractive growth area for us as
we benefit from our active and growing installed base
of 68,000 machines globally and are able to create
value-add for our customers.
Furthermore, we focused on driving excellence
across our operations. As part of this we have been
reviewing our operating model and merged certain
functions to streamline processes and improve
efficiency. Faster decision-making, supply chain and
process optimisation together with clear end-to-end
responsibilities are expected to bring efficiencies,
reduce complexity and enhance competitiveness
as well as quality. This will allow Kalmar to invest in
sustainable innovations and take better use of growth
opportunities.
Moving into 2025, safety, sustainability and leadership
will be key focus areas for us. We have a strong
basis, but we continuously need to strengthen this
foundation to support our strategy execution, longterm vision and to become a service driven company.
The year 2024 was my first as Kalmar’s President
and CEO, and it has been a privilege to lead the
company through a period of transformation while
driving sustainable, profitable growth. I had the
opportunity to meet many of our shareholders,
customers, and team members across the world, and
I am continuously inspired by their dedication to our
vision: to be the forerunner in sustainable material
handling equipment and services. Kalmar’s success
is built on a global footprint, our vast experience and
talented people, along with customer proximity, an
attractive market, and a strong financial profile – all
key elements that form the foundation of our longterm strategy.
I would like to express my gratitude to our customers,
partners, shareholders, and the Board for their
continued trust and confidence in Kalmar. I also want
to thank all Kalmar personnel for their hard work
and dedication throughout 2024, which has been
instrumental in our achievements and has laid a strong
foundation for the future.
