Dear reader, 2024 proved to be a transformative year for the entire car industry, a shift felt across all our operating countries. Despite of the challenging market landscape, we focused on systematic strategy implementation. Throughout the year, demand for used cars remained solid across our operating countries. However, due to the challenging purchasing market, our car selection didn’t fully meet that demand. Furthermore, profit expectations in certain price and power source categories shifted fast and significantly. The continued stagnation in new car sales added further pressure to the sourcing market, particularly in Finland and Sweden. The market wittnessed companies traditionally focused on new car sales expanding into the used car sector, altering market dynamics and further intensifying competition. Consumer confidence and purchase decisions were further dampened by declining purchasing power due to inflation, high interest rates, and increased uncertainty about employment. In the challenging market of 2024, Kamux Group’s sales volume decreased by -2.5%, totaling 66,548 cars sold. Revenue reached EUR 1,010.2 million, a slight increase of 0.8% from the previous year. Sales of integrated services grew moderately during the year. Adjusted operating profit decreased significantly by -35.8% to EUR 11.6 million. While the full year results leave considerable room for improvement, we can nevertheless state that Kamux’s operations are built on a solid foundation and we are well positioned to navigate even difficult market conditions. The increased competition, particularly towards the end of the year, further increased the importance of experienced and competent personnel. We completed key recruitments at the end of 2024. In early January 2025, Johan Kempas assumed the role of Managing Director of Kamux Sweden, and Sebastian Janik was appointed Group Purchasing Director, also responsible for Kamux Germany’s sourcing operations. Concurrently, Michael Ungerer became Head of Sales at Kamux Germany, and Joni Tuominen took on the position of Chief Operating Officer and Development Officer of Kamux Finland. We also finalized the recruitment of a new Chief People Officer and Joanna Clark will join Kamux during the spring. Additionally, Juha Kalliokoski returned to the Group Management Team as Chief Operating Officer, effective as of March 1, 2025. Strategy implementation progressed in all markets despite challenges In 2024, we continued to systematically optimize our showroom network through carefully considered openings, selected closures, updates to existing showrooms, and by focusing our operations on larger showrooms. The development of the showroom network and customer experience is progressing favorably. Efficiency improvements and cost-saving measures have mainly proceeded as planned. While measures related to the showroom network and personnel are on target, savings in costs related to cars will be realized with a slight delay. In Finland, we established a partnership agreement with Secto Automotive, enabling us to source relatively new, regularly serviced cars with good options. At the same time, we concluded a business transfer that added two large showrooms into our network in the challenging Helsinki metropolitan area, located in Friisilä, Espoo, and Petikko, Vantaa. During the fourth quarter, we acquired the Swedish company Webcars Logistics AB. This acquisition significantly enhances our ability to efficiently source cars relevant to our customers and enables more efficient car logistics. In Sweden, we focused on corrective measures for our operations and organization throughout the year. The effects of these measures, along with the training of new personnel, required time, and the positive impact will become more apparent during 2025. In Germany, our focus was particularly on updating the Kamux concept, developing processes, and improving efficiency. The number of cars sold grew during the year. I would like to express my very warm thanks to all Kamux employees for their tireless work and dedication during this challenging year. A big thank you also to all our customers and partners. Through seamless cooperation, we have been able to deliver a first-class customer experience in used cars and adjacent services.