2024 was a significant period of change for Kemira. It was also my first year
as CEO. Leading a company is a team effort, and our strength comes from our
collective expertise and commitment to Kemira’s bright future.
We took several steps to accelerate our strategy execution
and our transformation in 2024. In August, we announced
a new Group Leadership Team, laying the groundwork for
Kemira’s next chapter. We also renewed our operating model
and undertook a comprehensive organizational redesign
aimed at enhancing customer centricity, sharpening
strategic focus, accelerating delivery, and driving growth and
shareholder value. Starting in January 2025, Kemira moved
to a customer solution-based organization with three new
customer-facing business units: Water Solutions, Packaging &
Hygiene Solutions and Fiber Essentials.
Kemira’s solid performance continued with strong profitability.
Revenue reached EUR 2,948.1 million and operative EBITDA
margin was 19.90%. We updated our long-term financial
targets, aiming for more than 4% organic growth on average
while retaining operative EBITDA within 18–20% and operative
ROCE above 16%. We took further steps on our profitable
growth strategy execution journey with several investments
and one acquisition, entering the activated carbon market for
micropollutant removal. Our net promoter score (NPS) reached an all time high in
2024 and our employee engagement stayed strong. Fostering
diverse talent remains essential to driving innovation,
resilience and long-term growth. By embracing different
perspectives, we ensure our business is well-equipped to
meet the needs of our global customers and stakeholders.
Our safety focus is strong and will continue to be going
forward. Kemira’s ambitous climate targets were validated by
the Science Based Target Initiative, and our long-term target
is to become carbon neutral by 2045 for scope 1 and 2.
Our business environment remains complex which means
that we must be even more agile and flexible to leverage the
opportunities. We will continue to collaborate widely with
partners from the private sector to academia to speed up our
innovation, and we will apply our chemistries to new growth
platforms to continue our sustainability-driven growth journey.
I want to thank all our stakeholders: customers, suppliers and
other partners, as well as our Kemira employees, for another
successful year of collaboration. 