Strong year-end
in a challenging
market The year 2024 presented significant challenges for the DC charging market.
Despite this, we recorded a revenue of EUR 223.7 million and an order
intake of EUR 218.3 million. The daily electricity charged through Kempower
chargers reached 1,090 MWh, marking a 103% growth from 2023. Additionally,
the installations of Kempower chargers grew globally by approximately 30%. 
Despite the challenges, 2024 ended on a strong
note. We achieved the highest order intake of
the year, and the second highest in company
history, at EUR 67.8 million, with a revenue of
EUR 71.7 million. This success allowed us to reach
a positive operative EBIT and generate positive
cash flow, with an operative EBIT of EUR 0.8
million for the quarter. This achievement was
due to the hard work of all Kempowerians and
demonstrated our ability to react and adapt
to rapidly changing market conditions. Our positive results were supported by organizational
improvements and a reduced cost base. We
also implemented key management changes
to strengthen our leadership and drive
the company forward. Our renewed leadership
is strongly focused on growth, enhancing
operational efficiency, fostering innovation,
and maintaining a customer-centric approach.
These organizational changes position us well for
future growth. In 2025, we anticipate a stark contrast in the DC
charging market between the first and second
halves of the year. In the first half, we expect to
face challenges with weak market conditions
and industry-wide excess inventories affecting
demand. We anticipate inventories will decline at
a similar rate to the fourth quarter of 2024. The 30%
global growth in Kempower charger installations
in 2024 indicates continued expansion of our
installed base. After an extremely challenging
year for all DC charging manufacturers, we expect
the market to start recovering in the second half
of 2025. A third-party market study conducted at
the beginning of 2025 aligns with our projections,
showing that market growth will be driven by
increasing demand in the latter half of the year.
In 2024, we increased our focus on
the commercial vehicle segment, which is
now generating a significant share of our
revenue. Despite the challenging year in DC
charging, the commercial vehicle segment
grew significantly in both revenue and orders.
This is a very positive development, as we
foresee commercial fleets becoming the largest
DC charging segment by 2030. In the private
vehicle segment, we have increased our focus
on retail customers, where excess inventory is
less of an issue. Customer acquisition showed
strong growth in the fourth quarter, with 22 new
customers added, bringing the total for the year
to 66. Success in new customer acquisition lays
the foundation for future growth. New customers
include global logistics leader DP World and
leading global car manufacturer Renault’s new
brand Mobilize, which will bring fast EV charging
to locations across France.
In the fourth quarter of 2024, our North American
operations generated EUR 7.4 million in revenue
and recorded the highest order intake to date,
accounting for 15% of our total order intake. We
increased our market share in North America by
achieving an 84% year-over-year revenue
growth, driven by the increasing demand for our
charging solutions. Currently, there is uncertainty
regarding federal-level EV subsidies in the US.
We expect the industry to build on the success of
EV adoption in 2024, and we believe the market
potential for EVs will remain strong across
the US and Canada. We are actively monitoring
the situation and remain confident in our
strategic approach.
The truck charging program, including
the development of the Megawatt Charging
System, progressed as planned in 2024,
with the successful start of pilot deliveries of
the Kempower Mega Satellite from our Lahti
production facilities in December. This milestone
marks a significant step forward in our mission
to provide reliable and cutting-edge high-power
charging solutions.
The year 2024 was marked by notable
achievements in our key sustainability focus
areas. In our operations, we utilized nearly
100% renewable electricity in all our offices and
increased the proportion of green electricity
and green heat used in our factories and offices
compared to 2023. Through concrete actions,
we moved closer to reaching our 100% fossilfree electricity target in Finland by the end of
2025. Additionally, we made further quantifiable
progress towards our goal of being carbon neutral
by 2035 by reducing our annual relative footprint
compared to our baseline benchmark.
Throughout the year, we expanded
the charging power infrastructure delivered
to our end customers, enabling increased
transportation with low-emission electric vehicles
and reducing the carbon burden in the private,
commercial, and off-highway vehicle sectors.
Our goal is for our responsible products to
enable 100% electric transportation, sustainably.
Our products are also highly recyclable, with
a recyclability rate of 99.7% for our Power Unit
and Satellite. In 2024, we revised and updated
our supplier and service provider classifications
with sustainability ratings based on a survey and
planned our future actions accordingly. More
than 50% of our first-tier suppliers are local and
support Kempower’s global ESG and carbon
footprint reduction targets.
2024 was a challenging year for the entire
industry. Despite the market challenges, we
achieved success in many regions, including
the United Kingdom, Ireland, North America,
France, Germany, and the Netherlands, while also
making significant progress with our technology
roadmap as promised. As we enter 2025, we are
well-positioned to navigate the challenges and
capitalize on emerging opportunities with existing
and new customers in this globally growing
market.