ALL KESKO DIVISIONS
MANAGED A GOOD
RESULT IN 2024
Kesko’s sales and profitability were at a good level in 2024
despite the challenges in our operating environment. The
comparable operating profit of €650.1 million was a good
result in a market that continued to be challenging. Our net
sales totalled €11,920.1 million. Nearly 40% of Kesko’s net
sales today come from B2B trade, and some 20% from outside
its home market of Finland. The successful execution of
our growth strategy in all three divisions has yielded results
also in a more difficult environment. We have also been
successful in managing costs. Our cash flow from operating
activities totalled €1,008.2 million in 2024, and we continued
investments in line with our growth strategy during the year.
I took over as Kesko’s President and CEO at the beginning of February
2024. I have worked at Kesko for more than 30 years in many different
roles in both grocery trade and building and technical trade, and have
successfully steered various businesses, which makes me well-equipped
to lead the whole Kesko Group. In June, we updated Kesko’s strategy,
keeping the main pillars intact, while crystallising further the competitive
advantages and objectives of the three divisions: grocery trade, building
and technical trade, and car trade. In all business operations, we seek
sales growth, better customer experiences, profitability and efficiency
with the help of e.g. digital services and artificial intelligence. I see plenty of potential for all three divisions to grow and
further strengthen their businesses especially by listening
to their customers and responding to customer needs. I feel
that it is important to motivate our people through open and
honest communication about our goals, and to support them
and give them enough responsibility in everyday decisionmaking. Together, we work towards better trade everyday
with a “Let’s K” attitude.
In 2024, our operating environment remained difficult despite
the marked slowdown in inflation and lower interest rates.
Although consumer confidence strengthened compared to
2023, it was still low. Lower interest rates and higher wages
should, however, underpin consumer purchasing power,
and consequently retail. In Finland, business confidence
was on the rise in all sectors in the latter half of the year,
but the confidence indicator for construction was still very
low. Construction activity remained low in all our operating
countries in 2024. In the longer term, factors such as
urbanisation, renovation and infrastructure investment debt
and the green transition will underpin construction.
Despite the challenges in our operating environment, Kesko
is in good performance condition. We have a good, clear
strategy that focuses on our strengths. We are able to
respond to changes in our operating environment quickly,
and have constantly been able to improve our efficiency with
the help of e.g. digital services and artificial intelligence.
Kesko’s strong balance sheet enables growth investments
also in this economic cycle.
In 2024, Kesko expanded operations to Denmark by
acquiring one of the country’s leading building and home
improvement trade operators Davidsen Koncernen A/S at
the start of February. In August, we continued our expansion
by announcing the acquisitions of three Danish builders’
merchants: Roslev Trælasthandel A/S, Tømmergaarden
A/S and CF Petersen & Søn A/S. The acquisitions will
allow Davidsen to serve customers nationwide, and
notably increase our share of the Danish building and
home improvement trade market to some 20%, with net
sales of over €800 million. Denmark will become the third
biggest market for Kesko after Finland and Norway, and
the notable Danish building and home improvement trade
market will offer interesting growth potential for Kesko also
going forward.
Sustainability at the core of our strategy
In recent years, companies have assumed a bigger role in
finding solutions to global sustainability challenges. We
updated Kesko’s sustainability strategy in 2024. We had
already committed to setting net-zero targets extending
to 2050 for our entire value chain, and in the updated
strategy, we set emission reduction targets for our own
operations extending to 2034. Over the next ten years,
Kesko will increase investments in energy-efficiency and the
electrification of transports to reduce emissions. The focus
areas for the updated sustainability strategy are climate
and nature, value chain, our people, and good governance,
and we have or will set clear sustainability targets for each.
Sustainability also offers commercial possibilities for Kesko
in all divisions, for example, in offering local food and plantbased alternatives in grocery trade, selling products that
promote better energy efficiency and the green transition in
building and technical trade, and reducing traffic emissions
and promoting electrification in car trade.
As a trading sector company, we are uniquely positioned
to enable sustainable lifestyles for our customers.
Sustainability is a central part of Kesko’s strategy, and
we have engaged in sustainability work for decades. We
prepared Kesko’s first sustainability statement in line with
the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
as part of the Report by the Board of Directors for 2024.
Our long-standing sustainability work generates results,
and also garners international recognition. Kesko is the only
company in the world to have made the Global 100 listing
of the most sustainable companies in the world every year
since the list was first established in 2005. Kesko was also
once again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
the DJSI World and DJSI Europe, and in the latter, Kesko
ranked as the best company in its industry (Consumer
Staples Distribution & Retail) for the third consecutive year.
All three divisions managed a good
result in a challenging market
Sales in the grocery trade division grew in 2024 in both
our grocery stores and the foodservice business. Kespro
performed particularly well, and we aim to continue the
good performance in the foodservice business. Improved
consumer confidence and the slowdown in inflation have
begun to have a positive impact on the market. Our objective
in grocery trade is to strengthen our market position while
maintaining good profitability. Strategic focus areas for the
division are utilising store-specific business ideas to elevate
store quality, developing the store network and opening new
stores especially in growth centres, and measures to improve
price competitiveness. Finns favour hypermarket stores in
particular, and they have a material impact on market shares.
Towards year-end, we opened a new K-Citymarket store
in Vuosaari, Helsinki, and seven more hypermarkets are
currently in the planning or construction stages.
Price continues to be a major consideration for customers
in grocery trade. At the same time, the popularity of online grocery has continued to grow, driven by express
deliveries. Grocery-related media sales and data utilisation
have grown notably in recent years, and the new business
supports the good profitability in our grocery trade. In
2024, we managed to increase customer flows and sales
with campaigns and other marketing measures, but the
market share of our stores decreased. Price competition
in Finnish grocery trade continued tight. We responded
in early January 2025 by reducing prices on more than
1,200 grocery staples. Net sales for the division totalled
€6,381.4 million, up by 0.5%, and comparable operating
profit totalled €438.0 million.
In building and technical trade, profitability remained good
in 2024 even though it declined year-on-year due to weak
construction activity. The division serves professional
builders, technical wholesale customers, and consumers
in Northern Europe. We will continue executing countryspecific growth strategies in Finland, Norway, Denmark,
Sweden, Poland and the Baltic countries, seeking growth
both organically and via acquisitions. Key focus areas for the
division are securing profitability and improving cash flow.
In 2024, demand decreased in both building and home
improvement trade and technical trade in all our operating
countries as construction volumes came down, but sales
picked up in the latter half of the year. In the longer term,
the outlook for building and technical trade is positive.
Urbanisation, renovation and infrastructure investment
debt, infrastructure projects, and the green transition
underpin construction over cycles. Net sales for the
division totalled €4,351.6 million, up by 3.8% thanks to the
Davidsen acquisition, and comparable operating profit
totalled €169.1 million. Kesko is currently building a modern new logistics centre
in Hyvinkää, southern Finland. An important investment
of nearly €300 million in future growth, the centre is the
biggest construction project in Kesko’s history, and once
completed, will serve both Onninen’s technical trade and
K-Auto’s spare parts business.
In car trade, the market in Finland was weak in 2024.
The market showed some signs of picking up, but weak
consumer confidence, high interest rates, and uncertainty
regarding powertrain alternatives for new cars slowed down
recovery. Development in the used car market was clearly
better than in new cars, and sales also grew in car related
services. Despite the weak market, the profitability for
Kesko’s car trade division stayed at a good level. The major
transformation measures carried out within the division in
recent years have improved its profitability. Kesko was the
market leader in new fully electric cars, and we continued
to strengthen our K-Lataus charging network. In sports
trade, market share increased despite weak consumer
demand. Net sales for the division totalled €1,209.4 million,
representing a decrease of 4.0% in comparable terms, while
the comparable operating profit totalled €69.3 million.
Plenty of further growth potential
The retailer business model and our seamless cooperation
with the retailers is a significant competitive advantage for
us in grocery trade and building and home improvement
trade in Finland. Customer-orientation drives everything
we do. We want to maintain and strengthen our reliable
K brand, and to provide even better service to our
customers. Customer trust towards K Group is good
and we are among the most reputable companies with
the highest brand value in Finland.
Investor interest towards Kesko has grown significantly in
recent years. Foreign ownership began to rise in the latter
half of the year, and now stands above 33%. The number of
registered shareholders grew by nearly 8% in 2024 and was
over 113,000 at the end of the year. Kesko is among the top
companies on the Helsinki Stock Exchange in terms of the
number of shareholders, and very popular among Finnish
retail investors.
Kesko is an exceptional trading sector operator which,
thanks to the right strategic choices, can navigate also
through difficult and changing conditions. There is no
company like this on the market. We have focused on
three divisions, which each have a strong position in their
respective markets in both traditional stores and digital
channels, as well as good growth potential. For more than
80 years, Kesko’s strength has been its ability to adapt and
change with times. Efficiency and sales growth enable good
profitability development. Our good ability to generate
profits and our strong financial position enable investments
and good dividend capacity. Kesko’s Board of Directors
proposes to the 2025 Annual General Meeting a dividend of
€0.90 per share.
I see Kesko’s future bright also in upcoming years. We
expect our operating environment to improve in 2025.
I want to thank all our customers, shareholders, the people
of K Group and our partners for their trust and good
collaboration over the past year.