An eventful year
KH Group’s strategy is based on mergers and acquisitions that
will transform it from a multi-sector company into an industrial
group focused on KH-Koneet’s business. During 2024, the strategy
progressed in many ways, even though the business environment
was difficult. The weak economic cycle and the disruptive global
political situation had a negative impact on acquisitions, corporate
investments and consumer confidence in the future.

Net sales of KH Group’s continuing operations
amounted to EUR 194.0 million (190.6), representing
an increase of 2 per cent. Comparable operating profit
totalled EUR 7.2 (8.1) million. Our gearing excluding
lease liabilities was 177.3 per cent.
Successes in a challenging market
During the year, we succeeded in many areas. In
July, we sold shares in HTJ to the Swedish company
XPartners for a debt-free purchase price of EUR 23.0
million. KH Group’s share of the share purchase price
was EUR 13.1 million and the capital gain was EUR 2.6
million. HTJ performed excellently and our original
investment nearly doubled over our three-year holding
period.
Of the business areas, NRG performed relatively
the best, having made a significant change in
profitability over the past two years. The company
performed well in both the Finnish and Swedish
markets. KH-Koneet also performed well financially
in spite the weak market. In line with its strategy, the
company invested in profitable growth, an example
of which was its expansion into northern Sweden.
The expansion seemed to be a successful solution
already a few months after the location opened.
Challenges at Indoor
Indoor, which owns the Asko and Sotka furniture
chains, experienced significant difficulties, as the
market in the sector contracted for the fourth
consecutive year. Mostly as a result, Indoor’s result
was strongly negative. In order to reverse the
direction, extensive efficiency improvement measures
were initiated at Indoor, utilising the ERP system
deployed in the spring. The Estonian operations
were closed at the beginning of the year and the
retail property in Tallinn was sold. An extensive
renewal of the operating model was launched in
the autumn, merging the operations of chain stores.
Indoor conducted change negotiations in the fourth
quarter, resulting in the termination of 162 employment
relationships. The change in the operating model and
efficiency improvement measures aim at an annual
improvement in operating profit of at least EUR 10
million by the end of 2026.
Moving forward with a new team
There were also changes in the executive
management. In June, Lauri Veijalainen left his position
as the CEO of KH Group and focused serving as the
CEO of Indoor Group. At the same time, I became the
CEO of KH Group and Tommi Rötkin was appointed as
the CFO. In November, Saurus’ CEO Juhani Härkönen
joined NRG as CEO when Esa Peltola retired.
Strategy implementation continues
The goal of KH Group’s strategy is to strengthen our
ability to create value and improve the transparency
of our operations. We have progressed according to
plan, divested two of our businesses and started the
process to divest Indoor Group. We will continue our
work and hope that the economic growth forecast for
the year will stimulate both our operating environment
and the M&A market. I would like to thank all of
KH Group’s employees and our shareholders and
partners for the smooth cooperation
in 2024. 