Total revenue and net rental income grew in 2024, and
the fair value of our investment properties stayed at
the previous year's level. Funds From Operations (FFO)
decreased due to rising financial and maintenance
expenses. Our balance sheet remained solid. Our customer
satisfaction improved.
The oversupply of rental apartments continued, especially
in the capital region. However, the rental market is
expected to balance out as the number of new residential
start-ups is historically low while population growth has
accelerated in big cities. Since the summer, we have taken
several measures to respond to the intense competitive
situation. In the autumn, we achieved a clear turn for the
better in renting, despite the usual seasonal variation.
The occupancy rate in the last quarter of the year improved
by 0.3 percentage points from the previous quarter and
was 91.6%. In the coming year, our focus continues to be
on improving the occupancy rate.
The saving programme was implemented according to
the plan. The programme was started in the autumn of
2023 when we wanted to react to the changed operating
environment and to take proactive measures in order to
safeguard the company’s strong financial situation and
investment grade credit rating. We achieved savings in
accordance with the targets from administrative expenses
and repairs. Additionally, we significantly reduced
investments. Due to the measures taken, our financial
situation has remained good, and our credit rating has
remained unchanged. We did not make any new investment decisions last year.
In the first half of the year, yet another 354 apartments
were completed from previously started projects, and our
apartment portfolio grew to 40,973 apartments. In the
autumn, we started one development project based on
a previously signed preliminary agreement, and we are
building 119 apartments in Helsinki. For the time being, we
are not acquiring new properties. Instead, we are focusing
on increasing total revenue in the existing housing stock.
To support the maintenance of investment grade credit
rating, Kojamo’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual
General Meeting in spring that no dividend will be paid
for 2024. The company aims to carry out property sales.
The funds obtained from the possible sales will be used
to repay loans. They may also be used to repurchase own
shares and to pay dividends.
Our financial position and liquidity situation remained
strong throughout the year. We successfully made
financing arrangements totalling EUR 600 million by
utilising diverse sources of funding. In addition to the green
bond tap issuance and bank loan made at the beginning
of the year, we concluded a financing agreement of
EUR 150 million with a new financier in December. Both
completed bank financing agreements are tied to the
goals of Kojamo’s sustainability programme. Our financial
position is secured, and the loans maturing this year have
been covered. The next financing arrangements will be for
maturities in 2026. Developing the customer experience is one of our key focus
areas. The Net Promoter Score (NPS), which measures
customer satisfaction, was 54 at the end of the year,
showing a four-point improvement from the previous
year. The positive development was especially due to the
determined efforts to improve the multichannel capabilities
and the efficiency of Lumo service centre as well as due
to the development of close collaboration with our new
property maintenance partners. For our residents, these
efforts have been reflected in a faster and smoother service.
Our primary sustainability goal is to achieve carbon-neutral
energy use in our properties by 2030. In 2024, our carbon
footprint per apartment decreased by 22.9% from the
previous year, which is a significant reduction compared to
our annual target of 5%. The main drivers for achieving this
reduction were the completion of geothermal projects at
the beginning of 2024, the implementation of an AI-powered
energy management system, and the reduction of emissions
by district heating companies as the use of renewable
energy sources increased.
For our residents, sustainability are important factors
affecting the customer experience. We conducted an annual
survey among the residents to find out their views on the
sustainability of Lumo living. Of the respondents, 79% felt
that Lumo is a sustainable or extremely sustainable landlord.
The proportion of respondents who consider their landlord
sustainable increased significantly from the previous year,
and the importance of safety in housing was emphasised in
the residents’ responses. The work on the themes important
to our residents continues.
As a testament to our comprehensive and high-quality
reporting, we achieved the highest, gold-level recognition
from EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association,
for our financial statements and sustainability report.
In its annual assessment, EPRA compares companies’
reporting to EPRA’s reporting standards and best practice
recommendations.
At the beginning of last year, we deployed a new ERP
system, and we transitioned fully to modern cloud
service solutions. The development of information
systems and data-driven management, as well as the
utilisation of AI with new tools, continued in various ways.
Our goal is to enhance our operations while improving
the customer and employee experience as well.
The operating environment remained challenging, but
we developed our operations with determination and
strived to respond actively to the market situation. I
would like to thank the personnel for their exceptional
work and ability to renew our operations. I also thank
all customers, partners and shareholders for their
cooperation and trust in the company.