Dear shareholders,
Konecranes had an excellent year 2024. We had yet another
year of record-breaking sales, reaching EUR 4,227.0 million,
up 6.6 percent from 2023. Our comparable EBITA margin also
reached an all-time high of 13.1 percent, being well within the
target range of our ambitious financial targets. We go into
2025 with a healthy order book of EUR 2,888.4 million. This was
a great achievement from the entire Konecranes team and
underlines our commitment and customer focus.
Our performance shows that the strategy that we are
executing with the ambition to become the world leader in
material handling solutions, creating value for everyone, is
clearly bearing fruit. Last year we also introduced the most
comprehensive brand renewal for Konecranes in almost
twenty years. It reflects how our business has evolved beyond
just lifting and our desire to be the material handling partner
of choice. Konecranes Moves What Matters summarizes
our critical role in enabling sustainable material handling
for customers and society across ports, factories and
manufacturing.
Backed by this strong performance Konecranes will host a
Capital Markets’ Day in May 2025, where we look forward to
elaborating more on our strategy execution and on what’s
next for the company.
Targeted acquisitions and a deeper offering
In 2024 we made further targeted acquisitions in both our
Business Areas as part of our mergers and acquisitions
strategy.
We closed the acquisition of German port service provider
Kocks Kranbau, adding some 60 employees and access to
a large installed fleet of Kocks’ equipment. Our presence
in Europe’s largest port in Rotterdam was bolstered by the
acquisition of Peinemann Port Services BV and Peinemann
Container Handling BV, with some 100 employees. On the
industrial side, we added Dungs Kran- und Anlagentechnik
GmbH to the team, boosting our service presence in Germany. 
We also acquired patents and copyrights to the source
code and database of CATs, a crane automation technology
provider.
Konecranes is a technology leader in its industry. We
continuously develop our offering to match customer
expectations, and in 2024 we hit many milestones. We unveiled
the X-series crane, with smart, connected components and
features allowing for remote over the air upgrades as a first in
the standard crane industry. The X-series’ connectivity and
versatility make it an excellent standard crane for customers
across a wide range of sectors. It will set the new standard for
years to come.
The vast majority of our equipment is already electrified and
we further expanded that offering in 2024. We launched a
heavy-duty version of the E-VER electric lift truck and a fully
electric empty container handler, keeping us on track to meet
our commitment of electrifying the entire lift truck portfolio by
the end of 2026. In straddle carriers we added modular power
options around hybrid, battery and hydrogen, giving customers
greater flexibility on their path to electrifying operations
without the need to buy entirely new equipment.
Unlocking the next level of industrial productivity
In 2024 we started work in earnest on Zero4, an ambitious
Konecranes-led research program focusing on making material
flow better, safer and more sustainable. The program, partly
funded by Business Finland, has attracted over 60 ecosystem
partners across six research projects as we seek to unlock the
next level of industrial productivity. This program exemplifies
our technological leadership and supports our broader
strategic ambitions. Konecranes strives to take the industry
forward through innovation, and we do this both in-house as
well as through targeted collaborations with SME’s, universities
and wider ecosystem collaborations such as Zero4. Looking ahead to 2025
I look at 2025 with optimism, both regarding our business and
the positive impact we can have on the world.
Our sustainability work has been externally recognized as
pioneering in the industry, and we are taking determined steps
to meet our ambitious climate targets. We are committed to halving our value chain absolute emissions by 2030
compared to 2019 (encompassing the use of sold products
and steel-related purchases). We are targeting carbon
neutral own operations, also by 2030. During the year we
announced our commitment to setting long-term, sciencebased net-zero targets, and this work will be completed at
the latest during the latter part of 2026. To date many capital goods companies have set science-based near-term
targets, but far fewer have taken the next step of making a
long-term commitment.
Our excellent 2024 means we start the new year with
momentum and in a position of strength. The global nature
of our business, our unmatched service footprint and broad
offering provide resilience against geopolitical shifts
and uncertainties in the global economy. One example of
our preparedness and ability to adapt is the process of
establishing a network of partners to build a full range of port
cranes in the United States, thus meeting the requirements for
domestically manufactured port cranes.
For the sake of our Ukrainian employees and their families,
a peace that’s fair for Ukraine and would end Russia’s war
of aggression remains as my sincere hope. We continue to
support our local employees and are ready to take part in the
reconstruction efforts.
Finally, I want to take this opportunity to thank our superb
employees, our customers, partners and shareholders for
their support in 2024. Our focus on strategy execution and
value creation will continue in 2025 and beyond as we evolve
to lead the industry with our unmatched offering, innovation
and expertise.