The first steps of
the growth strategy
clear the path for
the future
From our point of view, 2024 was a good year as a whole.
Financially, we met our guidelines, even though the
market situation remained challenging. Expectations of
growth in construction were postponed, and the fall in
interest rates was not yet reflected in consumer demand,
as had been hoped, which was reflected in the demand for
chipboard in particular in our Panel Industry segment.
Overall market demand remained weak globally and was
burdened by various political uncertainties.
Our growth strategy progressed as planned. We have already begun to
see growth in volumes and profitability with the ramp-up of the new
sawmill in Järvelä. The sawmill and the development of related
operations are the heart and enabler of our entire integrated and
synergistic business. By increasing sawing volumes, we ensure the
availability of wood raw material also for Panel Industry needs. The new
log yard was also completed on schedule and on budget. The
operationally advanced yard enables even more precise timber
measurement and sorting, which increases material efficiency.
Combining operations on the same plot with the sawmill will make
processes more efficient and significantly reduce emissions of logistics.
A comprehensive EUR 12 million investment
programme to support growth was launched in the
Panel Industry business, which is the first step on the
development journey extending to the end of 2027. It
aims to improve the productivity, quality and yield of
plywood production by automating production. The
first phase will be implemented in 2025. Growth will also
be driven by the new production unit of the Kore
business in Skwierzyna, Poland, where the ramp-up of
production to reach industrial scale was initiated.
The acquisition of the Iisveden Metsä business
announced after the end of the financial year is a key
part of our growth strategy, according to which we aim
to increase the Group’s revenue to EUR 500 million by
the end of 2027 through organic and inorganic growth.
Once completed, the acquisition will support both of
these goals: it will directly increase the revenue of the
Sawn Timber Industry segment by approximately onethird, while ensuring the availability of raw materials
and enabling organic growth in the Panel Industry.
In raw material procurement, Koskisen invests in the
sustainable use of forests. We require our local
contractor partners to carefully comply with
sustainability regulations and report on them, as the
forest is a valuable source of our operations and we
want to take care of it for the benefit of forest owners.
Our corporate customers are becoming increasingly
environmentally conscious and want transparency and
information about, for example, the origin of wood,
starting from the harvesting stage.
We made significant progress in our strategy for 2027
by further specifying our range of means of achieving
growth. The clarification of the strategy structured our
message to the market and our activities both
externally and internally. We included the sustainability
programme we published in 2024 as part of the
measurement of strategic goals. The priorities identified
through the double materiality analysis provide tools for
goal-oriented sustainability management and its
measures.
Sustainability-related themes open up growth
opportunities in markets that are material to Koskisen.
The green transition and the regulation that creates the
conditions for it are the primary growth factors for
wood products. Sustainably sourced wood is a fully
renewable and key raw material in the fight against
climate change. Reducing emissions from construction
requires wood-based alternatives on an industrial scale,
and as the share of wood increases, our market grows
as a rule. By operating efficiently, we have all the
opportunities to develop the company and grow. Our
unique customer service plays a key role: we
understand the customer’s operations so that we can
offer products that meet the customer’s exact needs
and also maximise the efficiency of the customer’s
processes.
I am pleased with our progress, even though we are
only at the beginning of our strategy. Our range of
methods is in place to clear an ambitious growth path.
I would like to thank our committed customers,
partners and personnel for doing a good job and
ensuring our successful progress despite the challenges
of the market situation. We are in a strong position to
take the next steps on the path to sustainable growth.