The environmental costs of
geopolitical risks
The year 2024 was a year of change and renewal for Lamor, during
which we laid important groundwork for the development of our
business for the new strategy period. Although we did not reach
our growth and profitability targets, the near doubling of orders
received shows that we are on the right track. Our key objectives
for 2025-2027 are to achieve profitable growth and strengthen
Lamor's position. The work done by Lamor is especially valuable
now, as geopolitical risks are unfortunately materializing also from
an environmental perspective.
The need for preparedness is increasing, which was reflected in the growth of our
environmental protection business across all market areas. In Saudi Arabia, we successfully
completed a major project in the autumn, establishing three oil spill response bases in
collaboration with the National Center for Environmental Compliance (NCEC). As part of this
multi-year project, we trained over 4,000 experts representing a broad cross-section of the
local society. Our contract with the Saudi Arabian NEOM Company had to be renegotiated in
the autumn, but the final contract remained significant in terms of strengthening Lamor's
installed equipment base in the region. This project and similar valuable and unique
references will continue to support Lamor's sales in the future. 
In terms of soil remediation, we have stood out from our competitors with our operational
efficiency in Kuwait’s globally exceptional remediation project. The environmental damage
caused by wars is significant, as has recently been seen in Ukraine. The sooner the clean-up
may begin, the less damage occurs to both nature and the local economy. When the war in
Ukraine ends, this will be critical.
Order intake nearly doubled compared to the comparison period
In terms of growth, we remained below our targets in 2024. Lamor's revenue was
EUR 114 million, decreasing by 6 percent compared to the previous year. The continued
positive development of environmental protection equipment sales did not compensate for
the lower revenue from large service projects compared to previous year. The lower level of
revenue was reflected in profitability below our targets.
After a year of changes, it was positive that, thanks to our determined efforts, the number
of orders received for the entire year nearly doubled compared to the previous year. In the
fourth quarter, Lamor's work to streamline the invoicing processes in Kuwait yielded results,
and we succeeded in turning the company's cash flow clearly positive. Thus, I am confident
that the company is heading into the right direction.
Overall, we took several steps to improve our operations and sales during the year. We
clarified our organizational operating models and completed several internal development
projects. At the end of the year, we renewed the global management team to strengthen our
local customer and market understanding. Together with our renewed team, we can build a
strong foundation for Lamor's next growth phase.
A more focused approach to each market in the new strategy
At the end of the year, we updated the company’s long-term financial targets. Our updated
strategy of profitable growth is based on four strong pillars.
We will continue the growth of our environmental protection equipment and service sales
globally and balance our project portfolio by systematically expanding our soil remediation
and material recycling business. Additionally, we will take our first concept plant for chemical
recycling of plastic into the production phase and will subsequently scale the business
significantly. We will continue to strengthen our profitability by focusing on sales, offering,
and operational efficiency.
To strengthen our order backlog, we have now focused our operational and sales resources
on those markets where we see the greatest growth opportunities. Going forward, we will
increase our focus also on medium-sized projects. Lamor has a strong expertise in solving
hydrocarbon-based pollution and environmental challenges, and we can offer this expertise
to our customers in a scalable way through our global partner network.
Our strong focus on chemical recycling of plastics continues
Lamor's vision is to become one of the world's leading environmental protection and
recovery companies. One of the significant investments in our strategic period is the plastic
recycling business, where we leverage our expertise in hydrocarbons to bring a new
innovative circular economy solution to our customers. There is substantial and growing
demand for circular oil in the market.
The first production line in Kilpilahti is a unique opportunity for Lamor to create new
continuous and profitable business. Our strengthened commitment to the project is evident
in our agreement to fully acquire Lamor Recycling Oy in March. We expect production to
begin in the third quarter, after which the production ramp-up will be carried out in phases.
Lamor playing a key role in the journey towards a cleaner tomorrow
The risk of environmental incidents has risen globally. That said, recent oil spills in the Baltic Sea
and the North Sea, as well as missile attacks on tankers in the Middle East, are not only
environmental crises but also direct threats to people's safety, livelihoods, and the security
of supply.
Oil and chemical spills at sea and on land can contaminate nature and drinking water, as well as
destroy livelihoods. An increasing number of poorly maintained vessels are now operating on all
the world's major sea routes. The historical legacy contamination is not limited to war zones;
industrial activity has contaminated soil on every continent. There is potential for improvement in
waste and water management, as well as recycling. Environmental disaster prevention must be
part of a nation's defensive capabilities: sabotage or a major accident can cripple the economy and
jeopardize the basic necessities of life for millions of people.
Lamor is engaged in managing threats around the world, seven days a week. There is a need for
the work we do. And despite working in challenging conditions around the world, we had only one
accident leading to an absence for every 3.5 million working hours in 2024. The credit for this
goes to all Lamor employees