2024 was a good year for LapWall, although the deep downturn in construction continued and residential
construction did not resume growth as expected in the second half of the year. LapWall’s net sales grew moderately,
but its operating profit before the amortisation of goodwill increased significantly. Net sales in January–December
amounted to EUR 43.3 million, with an increase of 3.4% from the previous year. The operating profit before the
amortisation of goodwill (EBITA) was EUR 5.1 million, which represents an increase of almost 29% compared with the
previous financial year. Net sales in the fourth quarter were EUR 10.5 million, with a decrease of around 13%, but the
operating profit before the amortisation of goodwill (EBITA) increased by around 27% year-on-year.
At LapWall, the demand for roof elements was at a very good level at the beginning of the year but decreased slightly
in the second half of the year. In the wall element business, on the other hand, more volume was obtained for the
second half of the year, and the factory’s operating rate could be increased. On the whole, operations were enhanced,
and the sales margin improved slightly from the previous year. Strict fixed cost control and the higher volume
significantly improved the operating profit, resulting in an increase of more than EUR 1 million in the operating profit
before the amortisation of goodwill.
Our offer base has continued to grow at LapWall and is now at a high level, at around EUR 65.5 million. At the end of
2024, several decisions to start projects were delayed and postponed until 2025. At the end of the year, our order
backlog amounted to EUR 12.3 million, and our factories are not currently operating at full capacity. The outlook for
the early part of the year is similar to that for last year, so looking at the whole year, the outlook is positive.
It is our view that the lowest point in construction activity has been reached. In the construction industry, it is
generally estimated that the declining interest rate level and the recovery of the economic situation will support the
growth of construction. Construction as a whole is expected to start picking up during the second quarter of the year.
The growth in construction is driven by industrial and public construction. Residential construction and business
premises construction are expected to pick up a little later. In particular, the number of building permits issued for residential construction is very low, which indicates that residential construction will not start to grow in the coming
months.
The demand for LapWall elements has increased even during the downturn in construction, and we expect growth to
continue as construction picks up. Genuine customer value is a strong and practical growth factor, and a great source
of pride for us. Customer value is based, for example, on the efficiency and savings generated by roof, wall and facade
element solutions, which materialise in the form of a shorter construction site phase, the elimination of the need for
weather protection, and high-quality and rapid installation work. These factors directly support the profitability of our
customers' operations, not to mention the impact of the use of wood elements on the carbon footprint of
construction. All of this creates a permanent competitive advantage.
LapWall has invested significantly in building its future. At the beginning of 2024, the company made the largest
investment decision in its history to build a new assembly and parts manufacturing plant at the Pyhäntä unit. The
factory expansion will be completed for production use in the second half of 2025. The unit’s net sales are estimated
to triple when the expansion is operating at full capacity. The expansion will create around 50 new jobs in the Pyhäntä
area, which will make LapWall an even more significant employer in the area.
We recently announced our new strategy for 2025–2030 and announced a net sales target of more than EUR 100
million by the end of the strategy period. At the same time, we are seeking a significant improvement in the
profitability of our operations. With the Pyhäntä investment, LapWall has all the prerequisites to achieve this growth
target. The use of automation and artificial intelligence enables significant improvement in cost efficiency. We will
respond effectively to the needs of growing construction in residential, business premises, public and industrial
construction projects.
The focus of our updated strategy is on strong growth and the actions to enable this. Sales, optimal procurement and
production, the use of digitalisation and automation, product development and product standards, as well as skilled
personnel, are our key success factors. It is particularly important that every LapWall employee recognises the
importance of their work for the growth and success of the company and can commit to our common goals.
2025 looks to be a year of growth for construction. LapWall continues to work enthusiastically to achieve its growth
targets: the growth season following the downturn is just about to begin.