In circular economy businesses, solid performance continued in 2024. Both Environmental Services and Industrial Services improved their profitability, and net
sales of the divisions in total grew compared to the previous year. In Environmental Services, net sales were on par with the comparison period. In Industrial
Services, net sales increased by 2.9 per cent from the previous year.
In Environmental Services, the challenging business environment was reflected
in the demand for recycling and waste management services throughout the
financial period. Especially in the construction industry customer segment, the
demand decreased compared to the comparison period. In addition, the municipalisation of collection of packaging material waste from housing properties
continued in 2024. Through the efficiency improvement measures implemented
in the first half of the year, the costs of service production were successfully
adapted to the current market situation. The division’s market position remained
solid in corporate and producer responsibility organisation customers and the
position in the municipal contracts strengthened.
In Industrial Services, the hazardous waste business line saw strong demand
throughout the year. In the process cleaning business, the annual maintenance
breaks were carried out as planned and resourcing was successful. In the environmental construction business, the weak economic situation in the Finnish
construction market was reflected in a decrease in the volumes of material
flows delivered to material treatment centres. In Sweden, Industrial Services
expanded to the Gävleborg region through an acquisition.
In facility services businesses, the year 2024 was twofold. In Finland, the net
sales of facility services decreased as planned due to the termination of unprofitable customer agreements, and the operating profit more than doubled compared to the previous year. In Sweden, the adjusted operating loss of facility
services increased as net sales decreased by 16.0 per cent from the comparison
period.
In Facility Services Finland, all business lines achieved a better result than in
the comparison period. Performance of the cleaning business was particularly
strong. Measures to streamline the cost structure and the efficiency of the operations continued. The number of employees in the division has decreased by
more than 450 people compared to the comparison period.
In Facility Services Sweden, the decline in net sales and the increase in the
adjusted operating loss were impacted by the discontinuation of a significant
customer relationship in late 2023 as well as two public-sector customer agreements turning unprofitable during 2024. The measures to simplify operating
models and adjust the cost level continued throughout 2024. The number of
employees in the division decreased by 155 people from the comparison period.
The turnaround in Facility Services Sweden progressed more slowly than expected, but the new customer accounts won towards the end of the year as well
as the additional measures initiated to improve profitability create conditions for
achieving a turnaround during 2025.
In December 2024, the company initiated the planning of the possible separation of its circular economy businesses Environmental and Industrial Services
and facility services businesses into two independent listed companies. The
plan is to separate the circular economy businesses into a newly listed company
through a partial demerger of Lassila & Tikanoja plc. It is expected that the separation of the circular economy and facility services businesses could increase
shareholder value by enabling both businesses to pursue their own strategies
and growth opportunities more effectively.
Lassila & Tikanoja renewed its operating model in 2024. Continuing the operating model work, the company launched an efficiency programme aiming for
improved performance at the beginning of 2025, encompassing both the circular economy and facility services businesses. The efficiency programme aims
for an annual performance improvement of at least EUR 8 million by the end of
2026 compared to the 2023 level, including the impact on the annual cost level
of having two separate listed companies. The efficiency programme focuses
on, among other things, simplifying procedures and improving the efficiency of
direct and indirect procurement and fleet usage.