“In the final quarter we improved our profitability, in line with our strategic objectives. For the full year, our
realised EBITDA margin was 14.9% and we expect the good profitability development to continue in 2025. In
2024, we focused on acquiring new high-margin customers. Our revenue grew by 8% and with the Telemagic
and Zisson acquisitions in Norway, we will be able to elevate our scale and revenue to the next level in 2025.
In continental Europe, rapid growth was in line with our strategic goals, with revenue increasing by double
digits. Spain and the Netherlands are now our fastest-growing markets.
In the Nordics, our home market, we took a significant step towards market leadership in December by
announcing the acquisition of the Norwegian company, Zisson. As a result of this acquisition, Norway became
LeadDesk’s largest market, surpassing Finland. This acquisition strengthened our expertise and expanded our
customer base, particularly in the public and healthcare sectors. Zisson undertook substantial efficiency
initiatives in 2024 to improve profitability. These measures have included phasing out a product, which in turn
has impacted revenue, which will be seen as a decline in 2025 revenue compared to 2024. The full effects on
both revenue and profitability will be reflected in the 2025 results.
Our acquisition strategy focuses on gaining new customers and technology. The market remains fragmented,
allowing us to scale our business rapidly through active acquisitions. With the implementation of our new ERP
system at the beginning of 2025, we are now better prepared for integrating new acquisition targets.
In November, we completed the divestment of a minority stake in ProFinder. The price we obtained met our
expectations and was consistent with the market’s valuation multiples for SaaS companies. This transaction
enables us to fully focus on our core business.
AI-assisted solutions are becoming an increasingly integral part of our product offering. Thanks to AI
Transcriber, we can now offer all our customers the ability to convert speech into text. This capability will allow
us to develop new services throughout 2025. Other popular tools among our customers include AI Bot and AI
Writer, which enable automated and semi-automated conversations with customer service; AI Dialer, which
speeds up contact processes; and AI Analyst, which enhances contact centre management.
The primary goal of the first phase of our strategy has been to improve profitability to secure future growth. We
have successfully achieved this. We have focused on high-margin customers. Our profitability has also been
positively impacted by efficiency measures implemented within the company.
The year 2024 was a period of significant changes for our company, with Norway becoming our largest market.
I expect 2025 to be at least as exciting. During the first half of the year, we will concentrate on integrating
Zisson, allowing us to fully focus on new customer acquisition, improving our profitability and planning further
business acquisitions in the latter half of the year.
Our employees once again demonstrated exceptional expertise and determination. I would like to thank them
for their hard work. I also want to thank our customers for their trust and collaboration. Together we will continue
to take our product to the next level.”