During the year, we made good progress in strategic
development projects to future proof our business
In 2024, we continued our target-oriented work to build a solid, yet
scalable foundation for the future of Lindex Group. We want to be
fit for capturing new business opportunities, accelerating growth
and enhancing value creation for our customers and shareholders.
While focusing on serving and inspiring our customers with new
collections and services, we made a good and concrete progress
in the strategic focus areas and completed several strategic
development projects enabling our future success.
We had a strong finish to the year despite the challenging
market. In the fourth quarter, the Group’s adjusted operating
result was EUR 36.1 (30.2) million. The Group’s revenue was on
par with the comparison period, reflecting the continued volatility
in the fashion market throughout the year. Regarding our full
year performance, weaker purchasing power and low consumer
confidence continued to affect the demand and impacted the
revenue and result. The logistical challenges had an impact on
the performance as well. Lindex Group’s adjusted operating result
was EUR 74.9 (80.0) million impacted by lower gross profit and
continued investments in the Lindex division’s future growth. Both
divisions reported slightly lower revenue compared to the previous
year.
A successful launch of the Lindex’s highly automated
omnichannel distribution centre took place in November
and is being followed by a ramp-up and transition
phase. The new facility will be fully operational in
2025 and it will replace the current warehouses.
Going forward, the new centre will quadruple
Lindex´s e-commerce capacity and supply all
Lindex fashion stores and partners. We also
implemented new digital solutions in both
divisions’ stores and supply chains, improving
customer experience and operational efficiency.
Our journey to reduce climate impact and drive circularity in our
assortments continued. In June, the Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) approved Lindex Group’s emission reduction target, which
is to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our own
operations and value chain by 42% by 2030 compared to 2022.
I am delighted to see how the Lindex and the Stockmann
brands, collections and services continue to resonate among
our customers. The amount of new and active loyal customers
increased in both divisions. The year also marked the 70th
anniversary of Lindex. I see that what once started as a small
lingerie company in Alingsås in Sweden is today a growing brandled international fashion company with a bright future.
In 2023, Lindex Group’s Board of Directors initiated a strategic
assessment to crystallise shareholder value by refocusing the
Group’s business on Lindex. In March 2024, the Group name was
changed from Stockmann plc to Lindex Group plc. In December, we
announced that the assessment to investigate strategic alternatives
for the Stockmann department store business will continue and
it is expected to be finalised during the first half of 2025. The
restructuring programme of Lindex Group continued to progress
during the year. All confirmed undisputed debts have been paid and
there is one disputed claim remaining.
I want to sincerely thank our personnel for the hard work and
dedication towards our ambitious goals. I also thank our customers,
shareholders and partners for the trust and excellent cooperation
during the year. I am excited to continue our journey together
with you all striving to strengthen our company, drive growth, and
increase shareholder value. 