SUCCESSFUL YEAR 2024
The year 2024 was Mandatum’s first full year
as a listed company, and I am very pleased
with our achievements. The key metrics of
our growth strategy – client assets under
management and net flow – increased
strongly, and the year was marked by sever
-
al great achievements and successes in our
business operations, customer satisfaction
and sustainability.
In the long term, Mandatum seeks growth
in its capital-light business areas, which
are Institutional and wealth management,
Corporate clients and Retail clients. At the
same time, we aim to scale down the capi
-
tal-heavy with-profit business.
Overall, we progressed towards our targets
as planned in 2024. The strongest growth
in assets under management came from
Institutional and wealth management and
particularly from international clients, which
testifies not only to huge market potential,
but also to the appeal of our investment
products internationally. We have succeed
-
ed in increasing our market share in all of
the Institutional and wealth management
client segments.
In corporate clients, Mandatum focuses on
maintaining and further strengthening its
strong market position. We are the clear
market leader in corporate supplementary
pension products and personnel funds, and
we also hold a strong position in life insur
-
ance policies taken out by companies.
In retail clients, we continued our successful
co-operation with Danske Bank. The year
was game-changing as both investment
sales and loan insurance sales started to
increase.
ON THE RIGHT GROWTH PATH
Continuous growth in fee income-generat
-
ing institutional and private wealth man
-
agement, as well as pension, savings and
risk insurance products is one of our key
goals, and we succeeded in this beyond our
expectations last year. The Group’s client as
-
sets under management grew by 17 per cent
to EUR 14 billion during the year, thanks to
successful sales, high customer satisfaction
and a positive market return.
The strongest growth in client assets under
management – up as much as by 22 per
cent from the previous year – was seen in
Institutional and wealth management, which
is at the core of our growth strategy. The
increase in Corporate clients’ assets under
management was 14 per cent and in Retail clients 10 per cent. We reached an annual
net flow of close to EUR 1 billion, something we can be particularly proud of. The
fee result, which describes the progress of
our growth strategy and particularly the
development of Institutional and wealth
management, increased by 27 per cent from
the previous year to EUR 67 million.
In terms of our objective to grow internationally, we made great progress in 2024,
and our award-winning investment expertise
was in high demand also beyond Finland.
The growth in client assets under management was strong particularly in Sweden and
Denmark, and new clients were acquired
also from Central Europe. Demand was driven by, among others, the Mandatum Nordic
High Yield Total Return Fund. In 2024, the
fund was once again awarded as Europe’s
best fund investing in high yield bonds. Our
senior loan and private debt products also
represent top-level expertise in their field.
CLIENTS FIRST
Clients determine the success of our business, and I am very pleased with the feedback received during the year. Our customer
satisfaction remained at an excellent level
with the Net Promoter Score being 78.5.
The quality of our customer service was
highlighted also in a survey conducted by
SFR Research, which selected Mandatum
Asset Management as the top institutional asset manager in the large corporates’
category among more than 100 Finnish
institutional investors. Mandatum received
the highest grades in its category for its
long-term investment returns, market view
and the clarity of its investment process. In
addition to customer service, we were also
praised for our product offering and reporting service.
SUSTAINABLY AND RESPONSIBLY
Sustainability aspects are a recurring topic
in several of our stakeholder discussions and
we continuously develop our sustainability
efforts. In 2024, we updated the sustainability strategy guiding the company’s sustainability work and management, joined the
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative that aims
to reduce the emissions from investments
to net zero, and published a Sustainable
Insurance Policy.
The long-term sustainability efforts were
also reflected in the UN Principles for Responsible Investment’s (PRI) 2024 assessment, in which Mandatum achieved the
highest star scores in several categories.
Direct private equity investments were
included in the assessment for the first time
and scored five stars – an achievement we
can be very proud of. In addition, Mandatum’s special common fund investing in real
estate achieved the highest rating of five
stars in the Global Real Estate Sustainability
Benchmark (GRESB) assessment, placing third in both its Finnish and European
peer groups. Mandatum’s direct real estate
investments and special common fund both
received again the Green Star designation
as an indication of excellent management
and sustainability actions.
Our active sustainability work was also
reflected in the company’s ESG ratings
that were updated during the year. In the
Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating updated in
December, Mandatum was ranked in the
low ESG risk category and placed in the top
two per cent among companies in the asset
management and custody services subindustry. In the MSCI assessment updated in
November, Mandatum achieved an ESG rating of “AA”, and the company was awarded
the Prime status by ISS ESG in October.
Mandatum publishes its first ever Sustainability Statement for the financial year 2024
in accordance with the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and
the relevant national legislation. In addition,
we publish a separate Sustainability Review.
LEADING BY EXAMPLE
Employee well-being has long been a strategic choice for Mandatum, as we believe
that a strong corporate culture is reflected in both excellent employee experience
and high customer satisfaction. In 2024,
Mandatum earned, for the third consecutive
year, the Future Workplaces certificate for
managing its corporate culture with an exceptionally high level of employee insight.
The objectives of the personnel offering
arranged in August were to encourage our
employees to own Mandatum’s shares and
commit them to the company’s long-term
goals. These objectives were met beyond
expectations, as the personnel offering was
oversubscribed and more than half of our
personnel participated in the offering.
EYES ON THE GOALS
By keeping our eyes firmly on our goals, we
create the best value for all our stakeholders. For our shareholders, the Group’s solid
solvency position, the capital-light business result and the capital released from
the with-profit business enable attractive
dividends. As our liquidity position and dividend payment ability developed better than
we expected last year, Mandatum’s Board
of Directors has decided to propose to the
Annual General Meeting an extra dividend
of EUR 0.33 per share in addition to the
dividend of EUR 0.33 per share based on
our dividend policy for 2024. This translates
to a total dividend payout of EUR 0.66 per
share for 2024.
I want to thank both our employees and our
clients for the past year. A heartfelt thank
you also goes to our shareholders for their
trust and to all our partners for good cooperation. Heading into 2025, we are in a good
position.
