Marimekko continued its growth journey in 2024.
Our net sales increased by 5 percent to EUR 182.6
million as our retail sales grew in all market areas and
our wholesale sales in the Asia-Pacific region and in
Scandinavia. Boosted by the growth in net sales, our
comparable operating profit was on the record level
of the comparable year and amounted to EUR 31.9
million or 17.5 percent of net sales.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to all
Marimekko employees and partners around the world
for our success in 2024. Every customer encounter is
important in our work to serve both existing and new
friends of our brand in the best possible way and thus
take our brand and our story forward. An appealing
brand, interesting products, strong commercial
expertise and an agile way of working in fast changing
circumstances are ingredients for success also in the
coming years regardless of the economic cycles.
The positive development of our business even
in a weaker general economic situation as well as
our continued strong financial position enabled us to
invest in, for example, increasing brand awareness
and developing our digital business. These factors
will strengthen our competitiveness and support our
long-term growth.
Year 2024 was the second year of our SCALE
strategy. During the strategy period 2023–2027,
we focus on scaling our business and growth
especially in international markets. In 2024, our
international sales increased by 9 percent. In line
with our strategy, we focus on Asia as the most
important geographical area for international growth,
as the growing market, strong brand fit and proven
track record with the loose franchise partnership
model provide a good foundation for accelerating
Marimekko’s omnichannel growth in this area. Last
year, our net sales in the Asia-Pacific region grew by 11
percent and of the 14 new Marimekko store-openings,
13 were in Asia. Physical stores continue to play an
important role not only as a distribution channel but
also as the hearts of brand culture, supporting, in
addition, sales online and in other channels.
Alongside our network of stores, versatile creative
and experiential retail concepts help us grow our
global brand phenomenon and introduce Marimekko
also to new audiences. During the year, nearly 20
pop-up-stores, mostly in the Asia-Pacific region,
delighted customers.
The omnichannel Marimekko experience was
further strengthened in 2024 with the introduction of
our fully revamped e-commerce platform in all markets
where Marimekko operates its own online store.
The new platform enables increased personalization
of the online store for customers and adds to its competitiveness in speed and user experience.
Going forward, new channels, markets, languages
and functionalities that our customers are looking
for can be added in a faster and more cost-effective
way. This will help scale our online sales. In total, the
company’s own and partner-operated Marimekko
online stores serve customers already in 38 countries.
In 2024, we celebrated the 60th anniversary
of the Unikko pattern designed by Maija Isola. This
milestone of our most internationally renowned print
design provided us with an exceptional opportunity to
expand our customer base through brand marketing
and bring color and joy to our community around the
world in various surprising ways. Unikko was highly
visible on our fashion show runways in Copenhagen,
Tokyo, Helsinki, Shanghai, Taipei and Bangkok. In
April, the iconic print was celebrated at Milan Design
Week at the Bar Unikko pop-up café, which garnered
one of the biggest media impact values of the design
week's events. In September, the popular concept
was reproduced in Helsinki Design Week.
During the year, we launched three limited edition
collaboration collections with the global Japanese
apparel retailer UNIQLO and a collaboration with the
global technology company Samsung. Collaboration
collections, widely available around the world, play
a significant role in introducing new customers to
Marimekko. In May and June, we also launched local
brand collaborations with the Blue Bottle Coffee
specialty coffee brand in Japan and the Heytea
chain, focusing on novel tea beverages, in China. The
stunning Unikko print was the star of the silver jewelry
collection created in partnership with the Finnish
company Kalevala Jewelry, launched in October.
These types of local brand collaborations deepen
our relationship with the Marimekko community
in different countries and help us build our brand
awareness in a more targeted manner in the Asian
markets, for example.
In our growth strategy, we have defined a
sharpened creative vision to speak to a wider global
audience as one of our success factors. One visible
example of these long-term efforts to develop our
brand and collections is our first denim collection
Marimekko Maridenim, which arrived in stores in
August. Marimekko Maridenim pieces complement
our existing lifestyle assortment, and they have been
designed following the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s
Jeans Redesign Guidelines, which are based on the
principles of circularity. Influencers and members
of the Marimekko customer community came
together around the world to get acquainted with our
first denim products at launch events organized in
locations such as Shanghai, Tokyo, Taipei, New York
and Helsinki. The Marimekko Maridenim collection
was enthusiastically received by consumers.
We also continued our long-term sustainability
work on various other fronts during the year. We
extended the use of our framework for circular
design, launched new products following the
closed-loop production principles and continued our
determined efforts to increase the share of recycled,
organic, regenerative and innovative materials as
these materials are less emission intensive than
conventional materials. The share of these materials
increased to 59 percent of all sourced textile
materials (41).
Internationally growing brand awareness,
our developing omnichannel store network, and
impactful communal events and experiences around
the Marimekko brand support us in scaling up our
business. We are excited to continue building the
global Marimekko phenomenon together with the
constantly expanding Marimekko clientele, our
shareholders, our personnel, and our partners.