Improving end of the year
after a quiet start
The year 2024 was extremely challenging due to
an unfavourable market situation. Weak economic
development in the Nordic countries combined with
uncertainty in interest rate trends caused caution
in organisations’ procurement decisions, leading to
several projects being postponed to future years.
Employment development was weak, especially
in Finland and Sweden, and occupancy rates in
the office property market were relatively low. In
addition, customers’ increased inventory levels
decreased export sales.
During the latter part of the year, market demand
increased after a quiet start. In the second half of
the year, Martela’s new orders increased by 19 per
cent compared to the same period the previous year.
Due to the weak performance in the first half of the
year, new orders for the entire year 2024 grew by
only 2 per cent compared to the previous year.
In the second half of the year, we won several
significant office development projects.
For 2025, we expect a slight strengthening of
demand due to increased pent-up demand. The need
for workplace changes arises as ways of working
evolve. Meeting this need will also increase demand
for Martela’s services and furniture in the future.
Working environments are being further modified to
meet the needs of multi-location hybrid work, with a
focus on their functionality and attractiveness. The
upcoming economic recovery in key market areas is
expected to strengthen organisations’ willingness to
invest in office environment. The importance of onsite working for the competitiveness and operations
of organisations is widely recognised in key market
areas, but it is likely that the relative share of
remote work in the Nordic countries will remain
higher than in Central Europe in the coming years.
Profitability put to the test
Our revenue decreased by 8.2 per cent to €86.7
million, and our operating result was a loss of
€6.5 million. The result for 2024 was particularly
burdened by the low level of revenue and the tight
competitive situation in the market leading in
weaker margin levels in the second half of the year.
Additionally, profitability in the early part of the
year was affected by labour market disruptions
in Finland and structural changes implemented in
Finland, Sweden and Norway, which temporarily
reduced operational efficiency and caused
additional costs. We achieved our efficiency and
savings targets in the second half of the year, but
due to the weak market framework, the structural
changes were not sufficient to turn the second half
of the year into a profitable one. We have responded
to the weak market situation by announcing plans
for new efficiency measures in early 2025. There is
still uncertainty related to market development, and
therefore we must continue to adjust our cost levels
to the prevailing circumstances.
The structural organisational changes and
efficiency improvements in early 2024 were mainly
implemented during the first quarter, and at the
same time, we naturally aimed to strengthen
Martela’s customer service experience.
In 2024, both domestic sales and especially
export sales declined. Our removal and installation service sales remained at the previous year’s level,
and our unique Workplace as a Service (WaaS)
model increased its share of our revenue. In Finland,
our sales to companies and the government sector
remained stable compared to the market and
decreased slightly in the municipal and school
sectors. Our export level was lower than the
previous year in both other Nordic countries and
Central Europe. This was partly due to the some
customers’ increased inventory levels.
We continue to concentrate on
the focus areas of our strategy
Despite the challenging market situation, the year
was a time of strong development at Martela. We
invested in our strategic focus areas to ensure longterm growth and profitability in the future.
We strengthened our leadership in utilising the
circular economy by joining the Nordic Circular
Design Program, and this development work will be
reflected in even more sustainably manufactured
products and lifecycle services for our customers.
Sustainability has been part of Martela’s operations
throughout our history. We strive to create
sustainable and durable products that withstand
the test of time from both design perspective and
technical endurance. Our entire business model
is based on the lifecycle thinking of the work
environment, where sustainability is taken into
account at every stage, and the circular economy
plays a crucial role. I am proud that the results of a
decade of sustainability work were rated worthy of
the EcoVadis Gold rating in 2024.
The emphasis on utilising the circular economy
model has further accelerated the demand and
recognition of our Workplace as a Service (WaaS)
model.
Investing in the customer experience has always
been important to Martela. In the nationwide Work
Life Decision Makers (TEP, Työelämän päättäjät)
survey commissioned by Taloustutkimus Oy, decision
makers rate major Finnish companies in various
industries. In 2024, Martela received the best
overall rating in its sector and also had the highest
Net Promoter Score (NPS) among all surveyed
companies in the sector. Martela achieved the first
place in the overall rating for the 10th consecutive
time! This indicates that we have been able to
support organisations in the right way during the
significant changes in working life. A warm thank you
to our customers for their trust and to all Martela
employees and partners for their excellent work!
Priorities for 2025
In the coming year, we will focus strongly on
improving profitability and cash flow. On January
3, 2025, we announced the start of a new planning
process aimed at improving efficiency and
profitability, and concrete results are expected
already in the first half of 2025.
We will continue to invest in active customer
work and to work closely with our value chain
partners. We will continue to develop our service
channels and maintain our circular economy service
model and the offering of the sustainably designed
products.
I sincerely thank Martela’s staff for a busy year!
The year was much more challenging than expected,
but our investments in business development and
the positive feedback received from customers
create confidence in the future. The work for the
best working environments continues.