Strong growth in 2024 in
line with our strategy
In 2024, our net sales increased significantly and reached a record-breaking
EUR 35.8 (29.0) million. Net sales grew mainly in the second half of the year
due to the income recognitions of modular orders with long delivery times
and the timings of new orders. The growth was driven by power quality and
energy efficiency projects in the heavy industry sector as well as power storage projects implemented particularly in Finland. However, the growth of the company and
investments in our future burdened our profitability. Our EBITDA for 2024 was negative
at EUR -798 thousand (EUR 187 thousand
positive in 2023). The result was weakened
particularly by the significant non-recurring
expenses caused by the delay of the first
turnkey energy storage project delivered in
Lempäälä, Finland, as well as more demanding development work than anticipated in
connection with the project. Nevertheless,
our EBITDA improved significantly in the
second half of the year and amounted to
EUR 2.6 (0.6) million in July–December.
We are continuing our actions to improve
profitability.
Orders received increased in 2024 and were
EUR 53.6 (33.8) million. Orders received
included several important energy storage
projects, an opening move in the green steel
market, and steady product business in active filters
Investments in personnel and product
development
We strengthened our competitiveness during
the year, as strategically important product
development projects were completed and
significant system deliveries were made to
customers. We have continued to invest in
our personnel and in product development,
including energy storage product, software,
and service development. During the year,
we also built an energy storage of our own
for the FINGRID frequency reserve market
to support product development and market
leadership in the entire value chain. Our personnel increased during 2024 by 30 people
to a total of 127 employees. This enables
Merus Power’s growth and success also in
the future.
A strong synergy exists in our product port
folio; similar technology is largely applied in
energy storage products and power quality
solutions. This is why our investments in
technology development make it possible for
us to maintain the competitiveness of both
product areas and enable the implementation of the company’s growth strategy in the
strongly growing energy storage market and
drive success in the steadily growing power
quality market.
Order book on record level
The strongly growing green transition trend
supported our sales in both energy storage
and power quality solutions. Our growth was
strongest particularly in energy storage projects in the Finnish market and in international energy efficiency improvement projects in
the metal industry. Our order book was on a
record level at the end of the year at EUR 30.0
(13.8) million.
Our growth strategy in energy storage technology has yielded good results. During
the year, we agreed upon a delivery of a
38MW / 40MWh energy storage for Lap
peenrannan Energia and Ardian’s eNordic in
Lappeenranta, Finland. An energy storage of
30MW / 36MWh will be delivered to Alpiq in
Valkeakoski and a 10MW / 10MWh energy
storage to Enertia Oy in Forssa, both in Finland. All agreements also include a maintenance agreement and are good examples of
deliveries covering the entire lifecycle.
In power quality, we received several large
compensator orders during the year. For
example, we are delivering a compensator
to Saudi Arabia to support the operation of
our customer’s electric arc furnace and to
improve the energy efficiency of the facility.
Another example is a delivery of compensators to the GRK Group to support interruption-free operation of Estonia’s rail traffic and
its electrification.
Active work to grow service business
continues
With our energy storage and heavy industry
customers, we continue to work actively to
grow our service business. Merus Power’s
proprietary MERUSCOPE™ remote monitoring and control software and the MERUSCOPE™ trading services form a good premise
for flexibly serving customers around the
world. The increasing installed base supported by growing product and project sales
creates a basis for steady growth in the
service business.
Confidently into 2025
Economic uncertainty was reflected in the
entire year 2024. Although decreasing interest rates have given signs of a moderate
economic recovery, economic growth remained very modest. Furthermore, geopolitical tensions created uncertainty in the
market. However, Merus Power’s markets
are still well positioned for growth, and active
work towards growth in line with the strategy
continues in all markets. Policy changes in
the United States are likely to slow down the
green transition in some respects. However,
we do not expect it to significantly reduce
demand in the market segments served by
Merus Power's technology.
The year 2024 was a busy one for Merus
Power. We pushed successfully through
many challenges that the year brought on
our path. A big thank you for this goes to our
skilled personnel and to our customers who
have entrusted us with the execution of their
important investment projects. I would also
like to thank the company’s shareholders
– we all need to contribute to maintaining
the momentum of the green transition and
stopping climate change. We will confidently
advance the company strategy in 2025.