Year 2024 was one of continued success for Metso. For me
personally it marked a big change. After having worked
in the company for 27 years and heading its Services
business for the past four years, I started as Metso’s CEO
at the beginning of November.
In 2024, Metso continued implementing the current
strategy, focusing on the four top priorities that have
proven successful: financial performance, sustainability,
performance culture and customer success. I would like
to take this opportunity to reflect on the past year and on
how we performed in each of them.
Resilient financial performance
Despite navigating through some challenges in the
markets due to macroeconomic uncertainties and slower
decision-making by our customers, we again not only met
our expectations but ended the year with a good order
book. We maintained a robust share of services, which is
one of the strategic growth areas and cornerstones of our
success. Maintaining high profitability has been our key
financial goal, and our EBITA remained at the high level
of 16%. Both of our segments, Minerals and Aggregates,
performed well, and increased their orders or remained at
the same level as a year ago.
The strong financial achievement demonstrates the
dedication and hard work of the incredible team of
Metsonites, and I want to extend my gratitude to each and
every one of them.
Safety remains a top priority
While we have made significant progress in our safety
performance over the years, we recognize that our
journey is far from over. In the industries we operate,
the safety of our employees and partners is critically
important. In 2024, all Metso managers and supervisors
were tasked with identifying unsafe behaviors through
safety conversations, and all employees were encouraged
to report risk observations. We performed 50 internal
safety audits, resulting in approximately 300 corrective
actions. Majority of corrective actions have been closed
or the implementation is ongoing.
In 2025, safety will again be our top priority. Each
Metsonite has a personal safety target, and we will
rigorously review our processes, foster effective safety
conversations and risk observations, and ensure the
completion of comprehensive safety trainings.
Building trust with our customers
Our Net Promoter Score (NPS®) has risen consistently
over the years, reflecting the trust and satisfaction of
our customers towards Metso. We are committed to
further enhancing our customer satisfaction by improving
our response rate to inquiries and the timely resolution
of cases. The strong correlation between customer
and employee engagement is a testament to our
collective efforts, and we will continue to build on this
positive trend. Thriving company culture
Our employee engagement level soared to an all-time
high Employee Net Promote Score (eNPS®) of 58, which is
a clear indication of our good workplace culture and the
high level of commitment of our employees. In 2024, we
made significant improvements in the areas of inclusion,
health and wellbeing, leadership and collaboration. Our
ongoing culture development initiatives will focus on
fostering internal collaboration and collaboration with all
our business partners.
Leading the way in sustainability
Our commitment to sustainability is unwavering, and we
will strive to lead the industry towards more sustainable
practices. To proactively align with the evolving EU
legislation on green claims, we renamed our sustainabilityfocused offering to Metso Plus. This offering, launched in
2022, demonstrates in concrete terms the sustainabilityrelated benefits of Metso’s products, relating to energy
or water efficiency or the reduction of emissions. Going
forward, we will further highlight the customer benefits of
this unique offering.
We launched 24 new Metso Plus solutions in 2024, and
close to 100% of our R&D project spend went towards
projects with energy efficiency, emissions, circularity, water
or safety targets.
In addition to making significant sustainability improvements in the mining and aggregates industries through
our technologies, we continuously work on minimizing our
own environmental footprint. Our own energy generation
from renewable sources like solar panels grew by 23%,
and more than 45 energy saving and CO2 reduction
projects were completed during the year. Our supplier
engagement program also continued with excellent results:
close to 140 new suppliers committed to science-based
emission targets.
Looking ahead with enthusiasm
Since stepping into the leadership role in November, I
have met a large number of customers, investors, and
Metso colleagues from all over the world and I’m deeply
impressed by the enthusiasm they have demonstrated
towards Metso. Indeed, the company plays a key role in
responding to the megatrends that keep affecting and
shaping our customer’s world, like electrification, urbanization, digitalization and scarcity of natural resources.
I have assembled a new leadership team that is ready
to take us to the next level of growth. With this highly
competent and dedicated team, we aim to identify new
areas of growth and efficiency. I am confident that we will
achieve notable milestones together.
In 2025 we continue implementing our current strategy.
We also have started a thorough strategy review process
aiming to define the roadmap that will secure future
growth for the company.
Finally, I want to express my heartfelt thanks to our
customers, shareholders, business partners and all
Metsonites for yet another successful year for Metso. As we
look ahead, I am excited about the opportunities that lie
before us and I’m convinced that together we will continue
to innovate, grow and lead the industry that plays a crucial
role in enabling the modern world. We have started a
thorough strategy
review process
aiming to define the
roadmap that will
secure future growth
for the company.