Focus on profitability
In 2024, we continued implementing our strategy through investments and
development projects. In the current challenging market situation, securing the
competitiveness and profitability is increasingly important. We have a strong foundation
based on top professionals, high-quality products, and a solid financial position.
Volatility in the market
The year 2024 started positively, as paperboard demand picked
up from the previous year’s record low level. In the second half of
the year, activity slowed down, and our total paperboard deliveries,
roughly 1.5 million tonnes, remained below our capacity. Similar
to the previous year, we adjusted our production at several mills
to match low demand. Despite the slight increase in consumer
purchasing power, demand for fresh fibre paperboards continued
to be curbed by cautious purchasing behaviour and consumption
focusing on services rather than products. The paperboard market
has also been impacted by the strong growth in Asian paperboard
capacity and increased paperboard imports, especially to Turkey,
the Middle East and South America.
Volatility was also seen in the pulp market. In Europe, demand
was clearly stronger in the first half of the year compared to the
second half. In China, market pulp purchases were at a near
standstill from summer to early autumn. The increase in softwood
market pulp prices was not enough to compensate for the negative
impact of low delivery volumes and high production costs, and this
was also reflected in the profitability of our associated company,
Metsä Fibre.
The second consecutive challenging year
In 2024, our sales were EUR 1.9 billion, and our comparable operating result was EUR 69 million. Our return on capital employed was
around 3%, compared to our target of at least 12%. In addition to
muted sales, our profitability was negatively affected by high-cost
level, for which we must continue to prepare. The price level of
pulpwood, our main raw material, has nearly doubled over the last
three years. The supply of northern pulpwood has decreased considerably due to the discontinuation of wood imports from Russia,
while wood consumption has at the same time increased.
In 2024, unexpected events beyond our control also weighed
on our results. In the first half of the year, political strikes in Finland
stopped the transport of goods to our mills, and we had to halt
production at nearly all our Finnish mills. In March, a gas explosion 
occurred at Metsä Fibre’s Kemi bioproduct mill, shutting down the
integrated mill’s pulp production for several weeks, which affected
our linerboard production. Thanks to our organisation’s professional action and cooperation with Metsä Group mills, we restarted
linerboard production faster than expected and minimised the
negative impact on our customers.
 Our financial position remains solid, although the ratio of net
debt to comparable EBITDA rose to 2.0. However, this was mainly
due to weaker profitability. The Board of Directors proposes that
we pay a dividend of EUR 0.07 per share for 2024, which corresponds to 98% of our net result. 
Investments targeted at sustainable growth
In 2023, we completed two significant investments in Husum
and Kemi, which increased our annual paperboard capacity by
240,000 tonnes. This capacity is expected to be fully available to
the market as of 2026. In 2024, we also decided not to invest in
Kaskinen, where a pre-feasibility study was underway for a new
folding boxboard mill with an annual capacity of 800,000 tonnes.
Our decision was due to the high cost level, which clearly exceeded
our original estimate and meant that the investment no longer met
our financial targets. However, the pre-feasibility study results were
useful for the investment programme we launched in 2024 to modernise the Simpele board mill. We are also planning investments at
our other mills to improve the competitiveness of our products and
mills and achieve fossil-free production by the end of 2030.
Ensuring profitability and competitiveness
is increasingly important
To secure profitability, we have adjusted our production to
match weaker demand and have temporarily laid off some of our
personnel. We have focused on the customer relationships that
benefit most from the performance and added value offered by
our premium paperboards. We have invested in the maintenance
of our mills and made targeted investments to further improve our
competitiveness. Our high self-sufficiency in pulp and energy also
offers us a significant advantage. However, our profitability is currently unsatisfactory, and we must continue our efforts to improve
it. It is a key priority to ensure that all our production units are
cost-competitive in the prevailing market and economic situation.
Heading into 2025, we announced our plans to shut down the
Tako board mill and improve operational efficiency at the Kyro
board mill. We have initiated change negotiations at both mills. No
decisions concerning the mill’s shutdown and personnel reductions
will be made until the change negotiations have been concluded.
Long-term growth drivers remain strong
In line with our strategy, we aim to grow in fibre-based packaging
materials and renew our industrial operations. Population growth,
urbanisation and plastic replacement remain strong trends that will
increase long-term demand for fibre-based packaging. We will also
continue our efforts to advance sustainability. Our aim of fossil-free
production and products by the end of 2030 will also help our
value chain operators achieve their sustainability targets. We have
proven evidence of low carbon footprint of our paperboards,
which is becoming increasingly important for our customers.
International brand owners wish to reduce the use of plastic in their
packaging materials and improve the recyclability of packaging.
Our products and services help them in reaching their goals. Last
year, our Excellence Centre in Äänekoski hosted a record number
of customer cooperation projects aiming to improve the sustainability and performance of packaging. Lightweight, high-quality
fresh fibre paperboard is well positioned to respond to increasing
regulation.
I feel confident about Metsä Board’s future. We have previously
demonstrated our ability to tackle challenges in a changing
operating environment and create added value for our various
stakeholders. I want to thank Metsä Board’s employees for a job
well done and all our customers, shareholders and other partners
for their trust and good cooperation.
