Profitability Improved, and the Number of New Orders Increased Throughout the Year The PPT business progressed rapidly with existing customers, cash flow improved, and orders accumulated faster than before. Our profitability continued to improve despite increased investments in product development, sales and marketing. Certain customer projects advanced, and we received larger pre-production orders than before. Some customer relationships also progressed faster than previously expected. Operating cash flow improved by 145% and was EUR 0.8 million (-1.8) in the fourth quarter, even though we increased product development as well as investments in sales and marketing. Revenue in 2024 was EUR 4.1 million, 2% higher than previous year. Revenue development was affected by our strategic transition to the PPT business model and delays in prototype deliveries. We received more new orders than before, seeing a quarterly increase in the order collection. The order backlog continued to improve throughout the year, accelerating in the second half, and this also continued at a higher level in early 2025 than last year. The projects in the order backlog are expected to generate revenue primarily in 2025. Although revenue from the PPT model is still low, the number of care facilities using our cloud-connected products has grown from about 10 at the beginning of last year to around 50 now. This growth has mostly occurred during the previous quarter. We expect growth to continue at the same or a faster pace in 2025. Our extensive investment program has been completed, and the associated costs have decreased, which is reflected in improved profitability, even as we continue to develop our own product. Measured by EBITDA, profitability improved by 43%, reaching EUR -4.8 million (-8.5). Our total operating expenses have decreased by 28% since the beginning of the year compared to the reference period, despite further increasing product development as well as sales and marketing efforts. In particular, the efficiency of marketing and product development has improved. Operating cash flow improved by 87% and was EUR -0.8 (-7.3) million in the fourth quarter. The development of our business models is beginning to show in a more stable order intake, as well as in the growth rate of our install base and customer feedback. We are especially pleased with the decision of a significant U.S. managed care organization to replace all competitor devices with our PPT devices. Our role as a partner to customers has grown in terms of both the scope of our operations and the relevance of our solution. Certain customers also launched products that are partially based exclusively on our products. Phase three clinical trials are at our focus, and certain customers want to increase the number of devices installed in the field. If these plans realize in the first half of the year, we will install a record number of new devices, and the use of our own PPT product will increase. Device base growth is particularly seen in those indications where our profitability is above average. Positive customer feedback has been a significant factor in the growth of our product and our role as a partner in many customer relationships. The goal of our projects is the commercialization of our own products. Our product development pipeline remained at 30 (28) projects. These projects focus on commercializing our product platform in multiple indications and with various pharmaceutical companies’ products. During this quarter, we also acquired new customers, but our collaboration with them is not yet advanced enough to report them as separate projects. We have also allocated additional resources to projects with existing customers as they progress toward commercialization. The amount of positive customer feedback has continued to grow, and we are pleased that it comes particularly from projects that are closer to commercialization. Investments in our factory, such as production capacity and the biolaboratory, have strengthened our competitiveness. Additionally, the synergies of our platform solution are increasingly appearing as a positive competitive factor and a differentiating offering. This has concretely led, for example, to increased purchases from longterm customers. While the main focus has been on commercialization projects, we have also continued to develop our capabilities, and we are particularly proud of the development of our laser platform’s micro-optics and mechanics as a competitive factor. These have recently opened up new opportunities for our products. Our broad expertise and vertical integration enable the creation of better products in a shorter time and improve the reliability of our customers’ supply chains in multiple ways. In the current global situation, our own production facility is one of our key competitive strengths. We believe this has also positively influenced the continued expansion of our customer base. We monitor changes in the global economy and geopolitics, but so far, we have not seen any reason for concern. We have interesting customers, and their number is growing, but we also have a strong cash position and the ability to respond quickly to market opportunities, for example, by increasing our product development. We will continue to focus on growth strategy initiatives such as expanding our PPT model and advancing pipeline projects to commercialize our own products. We believe that our strategic actions and strengths will contribute to our business returning to strong and profitable growth within our strategy period ending in late 2025. 2024 was a year of strong development for Modulight. We worked hard, even though we didn’t reach our goals yet. I would like to thank our entire staff, the Laser family, for your strong contribution to Modulight. I would also like to thank our customers for their good cooperation and our shareholders and partners for their trust in Modulight. We strive to continue to be worthy of your trust in the years to come.