Year 2024 was another transformative year for Musti in a tough trading
environment. We grew market share and increased the number of
pet parents we support in our historic markets and extended our
reach into the Baltics increasing our growth opportunity for 2025 and
beyond. While the team and I are pleased with these achievements,
we are disappointed that it culminated in our first ever contraction in
year over year earnings, and we are confident that the actions we have
taken during the year will ensure that this is a once off occurrence.
Early in the year, Sonae successfully completed a tender offer for
Musti, leading to them becoming our largest shareholder owning
approximately 81% and they have warmly welcomed us into the
Sonae group. With support from Sonae, we have and will continue to
invest in our current and new markets enabling Musti to enhance and
evolve our commitment to communities and their pet parents.
Pet Parenting experienced softer demand during the year yet as
consumers felt the pinch from the combination of higher interest rates
and inflation. We strongly believe this softness is temporary, and
growth will pick up during 2025 due to returning consumer confidence.
Our sales continued to grow with moderate pace despite the
softer consumer confidence and shows the resilience of the pet
care sector. Our increase in the number of pet parents supported
and market share highlights the strength of our ecosystem and
the relevance our ever-evolving service and product offering. This
enables us to attract an increasing share of new puppy and kitten
customers and support them and their new family member with
valuable advice and support, enhancing our market share gains.
Food and consumables, the majority of our sales, remain strong
pillars and the growth of our online sales share to 24% shows the
relevance of convenience. We believe that our online offering,
its convenience, short delivery time and broad variety of quality
products will continue to add value to our customers and will lead to
further market share gains.
We continue to invest in our pet food factory in Lieto Finland.
This investment has increased our commitment to sustainably
produced products. The factory combines the ability to respond to
the increased demand for locally and sustainably produced products
and the opportunity to increase our profitability by insourcing the
production of our own brands.
Musti acquired Pet City in November 2024 and the integration of
the businesses is ongoing. Pet City operates in all Baltic countries
in both the pet retail and vet segments. We acquired 62 stores and
clinics which brings the Musti network to 415 outlets in 6 countries.
Our ability to combine a growing portfolio of products, services, and
advice via convenient propositions for Pet Parents is unique and will
be an enabler of future success.
Our primary focus is and always will be to provide the best
possible advice and support to our Pet Parent customers. We
recognize that without their trust and loyalty we would not be where
we are today.
To our almost 2,200 Musti Pack members - on behalf of our
shareholders, our Board, our Group management team and myself,
thank you for your tireless commitment to support our customers
and their pets. 