Nanoform continues to progress on many fronts. After six
quarters of negative revenue growth (1Q23-2Q24), we have
seen strong momentum during the last two quarters and we
expect this to continue in the coming quarters and years. The
growth will be fuelled not only by a growing number of nonGMP projects and GMP projects – both in the small molecules
and biologics - but also from development, exclusivity and
milestone payments and later on from commercialization fees
and royalties related to our technology offerings and product
kernels.
During 2024 we signed another yearly record number of new
projects, with especially the second part of the year showing
strong momentum. I am pleased by the fact that our Biologics
technology offering is starting to get the attention it deserves.
Another area where we see a lot of attention globally is around
our product kernels. The deal negotiations around
nanoenzalutamide, nanoapalutamide and nanoencorafenib are
progressing well, and we expect to sign deals with
development partners and commercialization partners in the
coming weeks and months.
Manufacturing of GMP material in project
Nanoenzalutamide has been extended into a three shift
pattern during 4Q. The scale-up from last year's campaign for
the pilot study has been close to 100x in the ongoing
manufacturing campaign for the upcoming pivotal studies and
registration batches. This is a fantastic achievement by our
manufacturing staff! On the R&D side we have again
demonstrated a further improvement in the production rate,
which lays a path for nanoforming to become a cost leader
compared with other technologies in the coming years.
 We expect nanoenzalutamide to be the first nanoformed
medicine to reach the market – with a planned launch in
2027/28 in the US/EU – and to be an income driver for
Nanoform already in the upcoming years. Nanoenzalutamide is
expected to progress via the ANDA*/Hybrid generic pathway
and as such will need to show bioequivalence vs the originator
product, Xtandi®. In the eyes of the regulators, bioequivalence
means 80% - 125% of the Cmax and AUC in a large cohort
study in fed and fasted states with a 90% confidence interval. *
ANDA=Abbreviated New Drug Application
The global annual sales of Xtandi® is presently USD 6bn and
growing. We plan for nanoenzalutamide to take a meaningful
share of this market through its highly patient centric product
differentiation (1 tablet vs 4 tablets) and unique IP position
(different technology, crystalline product, different
excipients), while not forgetting its green attributes. We see
the program to be attractive to value added medicine
companies as a uniquely differentiated and high value
supergeneric product that can enable a product launch before
market entry by other generic products based on the ASD
formulation, for which the originator currently holds patents in
both Europe and the US (with expiry dates in 2033). For the
originator company we believe that the nanocrystalline single
tablet product offers a patient centric life cycle extension
opportunity with compelling sustainability advantages that
would be difficult for generic competitors to match. Avoiding
the inherent stability challenges associated with amorphous
materials is also a clear benefit for any company considering
alternative formulation approaches.
Xtandi-tablets are formulated using a solubilityenhancement spray drying process to create an amorphous
solid dispersion. The major challenge with spray drying is that
the process often requires large amounts of undesirable and
toxic organic solvents. Nanoform’s CESS® process uses CO2
 of
recycled origin, and is organic solvent-free, offering a greener
alternative to medicine developers that seek to be both
patient- and planet-centric. Nanoform continuously improves
the CESS® technology, e.g. by planning to further recycle the
CO2
 used by the process to become a carbon sink. This is an
attractive proposition for the pharma industry to achieve its
ambitious net zero goals. There are already concerns in the
industry that industrial approaches with a heavy carbon
footprint, e.g. spray drying, may lose their relevance in the
future because of their environmental burden.
The timelines for the commercial launch of
nanoenzalutamide are demanding, but achievable. First, we
need to manufacture nanoformed GMP material for the
registration batches and the pivotal bioequivalence studies.
When positive, the submissions of the dossiers will follow, with
the aimed product launch after the expiry of the enzalutamide substance patent in the respective territories (2027/28, US/
EU).
During the past year we have worked on more than 40
different customer projects. These cover both small molecules
and biologics, and range across multiple therapy areas and
delivery methods. I remain encouraged by the diversity of our
nanoparticles and nanoformulations. Not all customer projects
progress - for a whole host of reasons - but the momentum I
see in many of these projects makes me confident that we will
also see some of these ongoing customer projects enter the
clinic in the upcoming quarters and years. This also serves as
testament to our strategy to work with many different
companies and APIs, and not become dependent on any single
project.
For Nanoform the last years have been about making large
investments and building a capable organization. The coming
will be about preparing to launch nanoformed products
together with partners onto the global markets. We are ready
for the challenge. I look forward with confidence and
excitement to the coming years. None of this can be done
without our amazing employees and great partners. My sincere
THANK YOU to you all for your continued dedication to
Nanoform and for the inspiring and innovative work for which
we’re known. 
