Focusing on performance improvement
The year 2024 was challenging for Neste, as the renewable fuels
market changed dramatically. We operate at the forefront of
climate change mitigation, and in the long term the company's
prospects are positive, but the path forward is non-linear.
The year 2024 was marked by geopolitical, economic
and regulatory uncertainty. For Neste, the year was particularly challenging. New players and increased capacity have entered the renewables industry, resulting in
a decline in product prices and intensified demand for
waste and residue raw materials. Consequently, sales
margins fell significantly below previous years’ levels.
In addition, our refineries faced some operational challenges that have since been resolved.
Our 2024 full-year comparable EBITDA totaled EUR
1,252 million, compared to EUR 3,458 million in 2023.
This result level is unsatisfactory. In October 2024, we
initiated a full potential analysis. The goal was to identify
all necessary measures to ensure solid performance in
all market conditions. In October 2024, we also restructured our organization and appointed a new leadership
team to expedite decision-making to navigate the complexities of the current business environment.
The company's Board of Directors proposes that a
dividend of 0.20 euros per share be distributed for 2024
(1.20 euros in 2023).
Rotterdam growth project proceeds
As the world's leading producer of renewable diesel
and sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), we refine renewable
fuels on three continents, and our nameplate capacity
of renewable and circular products is 5.5 million tons
per year. During 2024, we proceeded with our significant growth investment project in Rotterdam. After its
completion in 2027, our renewables production capacity will be 6.8 million tons per year.
In Porvoo, we successfully completed a major turnaround in a shorter time frame than before. During the
turnaround, the Porvoo refinery was one of Finland's largest construction sites, with approximately 7,600 people,
more than 1.4 million working hours and a total investment of around 390 million euros. In Porvoo, we continue refining crude oil and renewable and recycled raw
materials into more than a hundred different products,
which we deliver to our customers globally. In 2024, we
also had planned maintenance shutdowns at the renewable products refineries in Singapore and Rotterdam.
Solutions for decarbonization
Neste has been a pioneer in the green transition for years,
and we have made substantial investments in renewables. We source a wide range of renewable waste and
residue raw materials and refine them into high-quality renewable fuels. In this way, we help our customers
meet their obligations and achieve their own sustainability targets.
Sustainability is deeply rooted in Neste. In 2024, we
were again recognized for our sustainability efforts in
numerous evaluations and rankings by external independent parties.
Despite recent headwinds in the green transition, the
challenge of climate change continues to be urgent. The
coming decades necessitate a significant reduction in
the use of fossil energy sources. Neste is well-positioned
to address this challenge, offering solutions that enable
decarbonization even in hard-to-abate sectors like aviation. Thus, our long-term business fundamentals remain
strong.
Towards efficiency and
cost-competitiveness
In 2025, the market for renewable fuels is expected to
grow, driven by mandates and incentives like ReFuelEU Aviation. However, voluntary demand for sustainable aviation fuel is likely to remain constrained. The year
2024 showed that the markets for renewable products
are more volatile than before, emphasizing the need to
deliver value for our stakeholders consistently, regardless
of market conditions. We have the prerequisites for this,
but decisive measures are also needed. The company's
cost structure and operating model must be adjusted to
reflect the current market realities.
In mid-February 2025, we launched a multi-faceted
performance improvement program. The objective is to
improve Neste’s performance through cost discipline
and refocusing on the core so that we can continue to
invest in growth and deliver strong shareholder returns
in the future. We have also updated our financial targets
to reflect the current priorities.
With safety as our top priority and the operational reliability of our refineries as a key enabler for success, we
are now focusing on ensuring efficiency and excellent
performance in all parts of the organization and successfully completing the Rotterdam growth investment.
It is clear that there are numerous uncertainties in the
operating environment in the future as well. We cannot
influence all of them, but we can improve our own performance and competitiveness. This is how we can best
create value for our stakeholders in the future.
I took on the position of President and CEO of Neste
in October 2024 with enthusiasm and determination.
Neste is a unique company that I am honored to lead.
I have been impressed by the company's own innovations, engineering, sustainability expertise and resilience. I want to thank Neste's personnel, shareholders,
customers and other stakeholders for the good cooperation, and I look forward to the joint journey we have
ahead of us!