On the whole, 2024 was a continuation of Netum’s significant growth and success. Our
revenue for January–December increased by 18.6% year-on-year and amounted to EUR 44
million. It is particularly pleasing that organic growth represented 2.8% of this, in spite of
the difficult market situation. Comparable EBITA improved significantly to EUR 4.6 million,
representing 10.4% of revenue.
These achievements would not have been possible
without our committed customers, dedicated personnel
and strong stakeholders. I would like to extend my
warmest thanks to all of you for your trust and
contribution, which have helped to drive us forward. In
particular, I would like to highlight the strong competence
and professionalism of our employees. They enable us to
provide our customers with high-quality, secure and
effective IT solutions. Highly skilled personnel are at the
heart of Netum, and innovation and commitment are
directly reflected in customer satisfaction and the growth
of our business. Our customers’ trust has also played a key role in our
success. Long-term customer relationships and new
partnerships prove that the “Inspired by wisdom” thinking
offered by Netum creates genuine value. We have
successfully implemented several significant customer
projects that have strengthened our position as a reliable
IT service partner. Together with our customers, we
develop responsible and secure digital solutions that
support sustainable growth and meet the challenges of a
changing world.
During the year, we have deepened our sustainability
thinking, and its impacts are becoming increasingly visible
in our internal processes and the services we offer to our
customers. For us, sustainability is not just a word — it is
the foundation of our operations and the core of our
strategy. This means concrete actions to reduce
environmental impacts, promote ethical business and,
above all, support the well-being of our employees. We believe that employee well-being is not only a resource
in working life but also has more far-reaching impacts on
the lives of individuals and society. That is why we want to
develop our work community where work-life balance,
development opportunities and an appreciative culture
support sustainable success.
The year 2025 has begun in the midst of unprecedented
global uncertainty. Selfish and unilateral decisions made
by the major world powers undermine global stability,
exacerbate economic uncertainty, and weaken investor
confidence in Finland as well as the rest of Europe. This
will likely be directly reflected in our customers’ decisionmaking when investments are postponed or reevaluated.
In addition, the decisions on spending cuts made by the
Finnish Government in late 2024 reduce the growth
opportunities of the IT sector, while price competition in
the domestic market is simultaneously intensifying, and
inflation leads to increased cost pressures. These factors
may have an impact on the second half of the year in
particular. Together, these factors create an exceptionally
murky operating environment that underscores the
importance of adaptability and agility.
We are responding to the growing uncertainty by
strengthening our strategic planning and operational
forecasting so that we can react quickly to changing
circumstances.
We are focusing on agility and cost efficiency while
maintaining a high level of service for our customers. In
addition, we are developing customer-oriented solutions
that support their business even in uncertain times. This
ensures that we are able to adapt to market changes and
continue our sustainable growth even in challenging
conditions. In 2025, we estimate revenue to be in the
range of EUR 41–46 million and comparable EBITA to be
7–10% of revenue.
I have had an inspiring start to the year as Netum Group
Plc's new CEO. While I am familiar with the company
through my work on the Board of Directors, the new role
provides me with fresh perspectives and the opportunity to
focus even more deeply on the company’s day-to-day
operations. My meetings with our employees and
customers have been particularly valuable — their
thoughts and wishes guide us in building an even stronger
Netum. These conversations strengthen my confidence in
the future, and together with we can move the company
forward!