Entering a New Strategy
Period with a Positive
Mindset
Progress in collaboration plans and agreements in 2024, as well as growth of comparable
net sales and improvement of result for the period set Nexstim in a good starting point
for the new strategy period 2025-2028 STRATEGY CONTINUES TO FOCUS
ON GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY
In line with our strategy for 2025-2028, Nexstim will continue to
enable patients to receive personalized and effective treatment
and diagnostics for challenging brain diseases and disorders.
During 2024, we invested in a process of close interaction
between Nexstim’s Board of Directors, management team, staff
and our clientele to update our strategy. Our strategy will continue
to rely on strong growth in both diagnostics and therapeutics.
Our first key strategic objective for 2025 is to continue growing
profitably and improve operating result.
The growth and profitability performance of both our Diagnostics
and Therapy businesses will play a key role in our efforts to
minimize our future capital requirements on our journey towards
continuous profitability. As specific strategic customer groups,
we want to continue to highlight research, neuroscience and our
clinic partners as we promote new features, business models
and indications for our future systems. Partnerships are also
likely to become more important in future Therapy business as
we leverage our unique expertise and technology in still emerging
therapeutic areas.
In late November 2024, we announced that Nexstim Plc
and Brainlab AG started a collaboration by entering into a
development and distribution collaboration agreement and
agreeing to an equity investment of up to EUR 5,095,000 in
Nexstim. Our second key strategic objective is to successfully
support this long-term collaboration and to expand our network
of other partners and clinics primarily in the United States.
This collaboration agreement is historic for Nexstim, and I
strongly believe that the combination of Nexstim’s technological
know-how and first-class services with Brainlab’s innovative
products, which have significant business growth potential and
fit with Nexstim’s offering and customer base of leading global
hospitals, will create maximum value for patients, neurosurgeons,
hospitals and shareholders. The equity investment will help
ensure that the interests of both parties are aligned in terms of growing the Diagnostics business and committing to common
business objectives. Outside of Brainlab’s exclusive rights,
Nexstim will continue to independently develop, market, and sell
its products and services in all markets for current and future
neuroscience research solutions and therapeutic applications.
This includes all neuromodulation therapies that are not
administered in the context of neurosurgical intervention using
transcranial magnetic stimulation non-invasively. Nexstim’s
own sales organization, in collaboration with other distributors
and business partners, will continue to work in these areas.
The parties have also agreed on some gross margin targets
for payments received by Nexstim for sales of its products
(including service contracts) in the Brainlab business area. The
sales target for 2025 is EUR 4 million. If the gross margin target
is not met, Brainlab is obliged to pay the difference to Nexstim.
With the expansion of the network of collaborative clinics,
Nexstim systems would be installed in neuroscience clinics
and possible new investments will be made in clinic service
companies in the wider US market. At the start of 2025,
Nexstim had three partner clinics in the United States. These
partnerships allow us to work even closer to patients and
gather accurate data on the patient interface to help inform our
future development efforts. This information can lead to further
development of the clinic business model or the promotion of
new indications. During the strategy period we aim to increase
the number of Nexstim systems and the number of treatments
at our partner clinics.
Our third main strategic objective for 2025 is the launch of
the new NBS 6 diagnostics product in the main market. The
development and launch of the new system generation will
remain an essential part of Nexstim’s strategy for the 2025-2028
period. The new solution creates long-term value for Nexstim’s
customers and investors alike. We will continue to finalize the
development of the system and progress regulatory approvals
during 2025 so that, in line with our strategic objective, we will
also have diagnostic applications launched in the main markets
as part of the new NBS 6 system.
BUILDING FUTURE GROWTH PATHS
In June 2024, we announced a planned collaboration with
Sinaptica Therapeutics, Inc. for the treatment of Alzheimer’s
disease. Nexstim announced that it has signed a non-binding
letter of intent (LOI) related to a long-term 10-year collaboration
agreement with Sinaptica to develop, manufacture and supply
SinaptiStimTM-AD systems. The system would be based on
the Nexstim NBS 6 medical TMS and neuronavigation systems
and associated software, including integrated EEG software.
At the time of the release of the annual report, the parties
continue to negotiate definitive agreements for a long-term
10-year collaboration. In January 2025, we also announced that
co-development of the SinaptiStim® neuromodulation system
is underway, with planned delivery of the first investigational
system for validation testing and future clinical trials in March.
Sinaptica will use the new research system in future clinical
trials, several of which are planned to start in 2025.
The collaboration would enable the customized use of our
new NBS 6 therapy system and our unique EEG visualization
software in Sinaptica, a breakthrough treatment for Alzheimer’s
patients. Demand for our navigable TMS technology has been
steady and growing in the field of TMS-EEG research, and we
are excited to see our system being used in unprecedented
solutions for new clinical indications. Nexstim’s technology is
leading the way in neuroscience research, collecting accurate
diagnostic data and delivering reliable, precise and accurate
treatment. We look forward to the opportunity to support
Sinaptica, first with a development project and research
systems, and later in the commercial phase, responding to the
great need for safe and effective treatments for Alzheimer’s
disease.
Nexstim will continue its determined efforts to develop
personalized and effective methods for the treatment and
diagnosis of challenging brain diseases and disorders.
We strongly believe that our work will support long-term
shareholder value growth through increasingly strong
competitive advantages, rapid growth and improved financial
results.