Repositioning
for growth
This was a year of good strategic execution in a
volatile market to achieve our full-year guidance
while pursuing growth opportunities in our focus
areas of data centers, private wireless and industrial
edge and defense. Challenging market conditions in the first half of 2024 led to
our full-year net sales declining, but we delivered a strong
finish to the year with improving net sales and excellent
profitability to achieve a full-year comparable operating
profit(1) of EUR 2.6 billion, at the mid-point of our guidance
of EUR 2.3 to 2.9 billion.
We delivered a strong cash performance throughout 2024,
ending with full-year free cash flow(1) of EUR 2.0 billion.
This means we have a strong balance sheet supporting
our business, with net cash and interest-bearing financial
investments(1) of EUR 4.9 billion at the end of the year,
even after returning EUR 1.4 billion to shareholders through
dividends and share buybacks. As a result, the Board is
proposing an increase in the dividend to EUR 0.14 per share
in respect of the financial year 2024.
Gaining share and expanding into new markets
Thanks to improving market trends and the determination
of the Nokia team, we ended the year with excellent deal
momentum, gaining share in many key markets and winning
entirely new communication service provider (CSP) and
enterprise customers.
For instance, our Network Infrastructure business, which is
a market leader in fixed, IP and optical networks, secured a
strategic deal with AT&T to deploy next-generation fiber
broadband in the US. Network Infrastructure also continued
its expansion in the data center market, winning significant
deals including Microsoft, CoreWeave and Nscale, as well as
announcing new go-to-market partnerships with Kyndryl
and Lenovo.
Over the course of 2024, our Mobile Networks business won
12 new CSP and 9 new enterprise customers, as well as gained
share with 10 existing CSP customers. As a result, Mobile
Networks added 18 000 base station sites, on a net basis,
to build share in a challenging market with notable highlights,
including a large-scale commercial O-RAN rollout with Deutsche
Telekom in Germany. Mobile Networks also expanded its
AirScale portfolio with new market-leading, energy-efficient
Massive MIMO radios to support mobile traffic growth and
accelerate mass 5G rollouts.
Cloud and Network Services continued to rebalance its
portfolio and strengthen its technology leadership, ending the
year with 123 5G Standalone Core customers, the highest in
the industry. By the end of 2024 we also had a market-leading
850 private wireless customers.
Nokia Technologies filed a record-breaking 3 000 patents
in 2024 and passed the milestone of 7 000 patent families
essential to 5G. Our patent-licensing business successfully
concluded its smartphone renewal cycle and made further
progress in its growth areas of automotive, consumer
electronics, Internet of Things (IoT) and multimedia.
Strategic moves to accelerate growth
Nokia continued to lead the telecom industry’s transition to AIRAN, Cloud RAN and cloud-native core networks, helping CSPs
cloudify, automate and monetize their networks to capitalize
on the opportunities that AI and cloud are bringing.
We believe that programmable networks, through application
programming interfaces (APIs), are central to unlocking
monetization opportunities for our customers and partners.
As well as continuing to expand the reach of our Network as
Code platform, we acquired US tech firm Rapid’s technology
and R&D unit this year. This acquisition gives us the world’s
largest API hub, used by thousands of developers globally,
and strengthens our R&D capabilities. It also meant that by
the end of 2024, we had 48 network API partners, including
Orange, Telefonica and Google.
We also undertook significant strategic moves to accelerate
progress in our new focus areas of data centers, private
wireless and industrial edge, and defense.
For instance, the sale of the Submarine Networks business and
the acquisition of optical networking supplier Infinera have
reshaped our Network Infrastructure business around three
leading pillars, have strengthened our optical position,
particularly in the US, and will help to accelerate our progress
in the data center market. To support that ambition, at the
fourth quarter results, we announced our intention to invest up
to an additional EUR 100 million in annual operating expenses
in data center IP networking, with a view to driving incremental
net sales of EUR 1 billion by 2028.
Mobile Networks’ acquisition of tactical communications
specialist Fenix Group broadens our defense portfolio, and the
launch of Nokia 5G Banshee Flex Radio at the end of the year
is a sign of things to come as we start to apply our expertise
in fast, secure and reliable 5G connectivity to a range of
defense scenarios.
Looking ahead
Given the market volatility in 2024, our performance
demonstrated Nokia’s responsiveness and capacity to execute
in all market conditions. I am grateful to the Nokia team for
their commitment, hard work and drive in delivering on our
guidance and creating a strong foundation for growth this year.
This will be my last annual report as President and CEO of
Nokia. In February 2025 we announced a leadership transition,
with Justin Hotard becoming the next President and CEO
of Nokia on 1 April. I had earlier indicated to the Board
that I wanted to move on from executive roles when the
repositioning of the business was at a more advanced stage,
and when the right successor had been identified. With both
of those conditions met, I decided it is the right time to
step down.
I’m proud of the work we have done in re-establishing Nokia’s
competitiveness and technology leadership and in positioning
the company for growth.
It has been a privilege to lead Nokia and to have worked with
one of the best teams in the industry.