On a growth
journey
I am excited and honored to lead Nokian Tyres. I have long
experience of working in the tire industry and have followed
the company’s journey for over 20 years. I have always admired
Nokian Tyres' products and its strong commitment to innovation.
I was particularly impressed by how the company adapted
after exiting Russia and began building a new route toward
sustainable growth.
Nokian Tyres is currently in an interesting growth phase. Having
navigated through challenging times in the past years, we are
now aiming for growth in Central Europe and North America. In
the Nordic countries, we want to maintain our strong position.
This, combined with excellent products, a valued brand and
continuous development in sustainability, creates an excellent
foundation for growth and profitability.
During the first weeks in the company, I have had the opportunity to meet many of our personnel and visit different locations.
It has been inspiring to see how much expertise we have in
the company and how strong our customer relationships are. Our key priorities are clear. We will expand production capacity as
planned, while maximizing the potential of our existing assets. In
Passenger Car Tyres, we have made significant progress in creating
a more balanced manufacturing platform to support growth. Now,
we must focus on making this platform even more productive and
efficient. Additionally, we will enhance Nokian Tyres’ brand awareness
and sharpen our consumer focus to build long-term loyalty.
In the short term, our top priority is the successful ramp-up of
our new factory in Romania while simultaneously enhancing our
manufacturing capabilities in Finland and the US. With dedicated production facilities closer to customers and consumers, we are building
a more agile business model to better serve key markets. It helps us
strengthen our position in the Nordic countries, regain market share
in Central Europe and drive growth in North America.
In Heavy Tyres, we also have opportunities to grow through new
products and customers. Vianor supports our sales and premium
brand position in the Nordic countries. Innovation is key to staying ahead of the game. Nokian Tyres is
known for its high-quality premium products that perform well
even in demanding conditions. We focus on high value segments,
especially winter tires. The development of such high-performance
products requires continuous innovation in terms of raw materials,
product properties and manufacturing processes. In recent years, we
have invested significantly in advanced manufacturing technologies
to cater to the evolving consumer needs. By leveraging these assets
and our strong innovation capabilities, we continue to deliver safe,
sustainably manufactured and high-performing tires to the markets.  Sustainability is deeply integrated into our daily operations, and
we work systematically toward a more sustainable future. We have
reduced the environmental impact of our operations year by year.
Our production facilities close to end users help reduce our carbon
footprint further, and our new factory in Romania, which is the
world’s first full-scale zero CO2 emission tire factory, is an industry
benchmark in sustainability.
Sustainability also means new innovations for the benefit of consumers. We continuously improve the sustainability of our products, for
example by developing tires from recycled or renewable materials.
We are proud to be part of the UN Global Compact and work with
other stakeholders to improve working conditions and human rights
along the supply chain. In 2025, we continue to focus on growth. This will be driven by new,
innovative products and an even greater focus on generating value
for consumers. Improving operational efficiency and strict cost control, together with increasing sales volume and average sales price,
support profitability improvement. Regardless of how the market
develops, I see good opportunities to strengthen our market
position and drive our business forward.
Ultimately, however, a company's success depends on its people.
Nokian Tyres has a highly competent and dedicated team, and we
will continue to strengthen collaboration within the organization.
Together we are stronger. Changes that we made to our organization
and leadership in the beginning of 2025 will help us become more consumer-centric and achieve global synergies and operational excellence
in everything we do. Nokian Tyres is set to drive profitable growth and
deliver innovative, sustainable products while enhancing productivity
and efficiency to create something we can all be proud of. 