Dear stakeholder,
Resilient, highly profitable and growing: that’s Nordea after another year
of strong performance in 2024. Despite the uncertain market environment,
our clear strategic focus and investments are delivering real results for our
customers and shareholders. We aim to build on this momentum.
In the Nordics, we are fortunate to live in stable and
prosperous societies. Even so, our open economies are
not immune to uncertainty. 2024 reminded us of how
unpredictable the world can be. It also confirmed that
geopolitical tensions and security threats are now part
of our everyday reality.
The good news is that inflation eased as the year
went on and, together with lower interest rates, this
provided some welcome relief to households and businesses. As the year drew to a close, economic activity in
the Nordics showed signs of picking up.
At Nordea, we have stayed focused on what matters
most: delivering on our priorities and fulfilling our role
as a strong and resilient partner for customers, shareholders and the wider communities we serve.
Sustained strong profitability
Much of Nordea’s strength and resilience today is built
on the foundations we started laying in 2019. We are
now in the final year of our current strategy period
(2022–25) and it is clear the plan is working. Supported
by our strategic investments, we have grown the business, created sustainable efficiencies and significantly
improved customer experience – with customer satisfaction up across the board. We have also made great
strides in Sweden, where, five years ago, we launched
a strategic initiative to strengthen our market position.
We have grown our market shares and in December
2024 we were named Sweden’s Bank of the Year by a
leading national financial publication.
The increased trust shows we are making the right
investments, especially in our digital services, where we
are today a recognised leader. Along the way, we have
become a more personal, expert and responsible partner for our customers – traits we hope they see in us in
every interaction. The progress is encouraging, although
our work is far from done. Our focus remains on continuously improving to meet customer expectations.
In recent years our financial performance has
strengthened considerably, as was again evident in 2024.
At 16.7%, full-year return on equity exceeded 16% for the
second year in a row. Supported by growing levels of
customer activity, total income grew by 3%, to EUR
12.1bn. Operating profit increased by 3%, to EUR 6.5bn.
Throughout 2024, our customers focused on building
their financial security, leading to strong demand for our
savings and investment products. Deposit volumes rose
by 6% year on year, with retail up 5%, supported
by increased pension savings, and corporate up 8%.
Mortgage lending volumes grew by 6% year on year,
and there were signs that the Nordic housing markets
were starting to recover after a few slow years. Higher
demand for loan promises was one indication of this.
In Norway, we completed our acquisition of Danske
Bank’s Norwegian personal customer and private banking business. This important step strengthens our position in the market and brings new opportunities to serve
our customers with our broad offering. It also demonstrates our proven ability to successfully integrate largescale businesses. In recent years we have made several
bolt-on acquisitions to help accelerate our growth. Our
primary focus is to grow organically, but we will also
continue to target bolt-on opportunities.
In somewhat subdued corporate markets, we performed well, increasing our market share in key segments.
Our corporate lending was up 1% year on year.
A standout moment was our role in DSV’s acquisition
of DB Schenker, the largest transaction ever undertaken
by a Danish company. The deal reflected the trust placed
in us to support transactions of this scale and our ability
to create value for major global players.
Higher capital markets activity in 2024 also reinforced
our position as a leading asset manager. During the year
thousands more private banking customers decided to
choose Nordea, driving a strong positive net flow and
growing our assets under management to EUR 422bn.
Five million digital customers
To support our strategy, we are activating two key
levers that are critical to our long-term success: being a
digital leader in our industry and integrating sustainability into the core of our business.
Digital technologies are key to providing outstanding
banking services. During 2024 we continued to develop
ours, making numerous improvements and introducing
new features in our mobile app and online bank. Our
digital services are seeing strong growth, with more
than five million customers now banking with us
digitally – 25% more than three years ago.
We have also continued to invest in technology, data
and AI, and other key areas to support growth, be more
efficient and further improve customer experience. As
we invest, we are looking to build scale advantages as
the only truly pan-Nordic financial services provider. We
see opportunities to simplify our offering and processes.
Cybersecurity remains a key focus for us, as Nordic
societies are facing increasing and more sophisticated
cyber threats, including attacks designed to disrupt
online services and create uncertainty. During 2024 we
further strengthened our systems. To keep our customers safe, we also developed our financial crime and
fraud prevention capabilities. Both fraud cases and
fraud losses fell in 2024.
Supporting the sustainability transition
On the second key lever, sustainability, we kept up the
strong momentum. While changing political currents
are creating more challenging conditions for climate
and environmental investments, we remain committed
to supporting our customers in the societal transition.
Our ambition to be net zero by 2050 remains in focus –
and we are taking tangible steps to get there. These
include reducing the carbon emissions from our lending
and investment activities and growing our
sustainability-linked lending. We will work pragmatically with our customers to help them balance their sustainability commitments and manage climate risks in
the new political environment.
As a financial institution, we are very aware that our
impact extends well beyond climate action. In 2024 we
kept up our strong support for entrepreneurship through
both our business activities and community engagement.
We also continued our long-running programmes to help
children and adults develop their financial skills – efforts
that are making a real difference in our communities. We
are committed to being a responsible and transparent
taxpayer, and had a total tax footprint of EUR 5.6bn in
2024 – among the largest of any Nordic company.
As an employer, we took more steps towards an even
more inclusive workspace, further reducing the pay gap
between men and women and increasing the number of
women in senior leadership positions. Put simply, being
diverse helps us drive better results.
A strong partner for a prosperous region
Our business model reinforces our position as a safe and
trusted partner for our customers. We are well diversified, balancing income and lending across sectors in our
four Nordic markets, with a prudent credit policy. Even
in last year’s challenging economic environment, loan
losses stayed low and below the long-term average.
Our capital generation remains strong. At the end of
2024 our CET1 ratio stood at 15.8%, 2.2 percentage
points above the current regulatory requirement.
Our Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of EUR
0.94 per share for 2024, an increase of EUR 0.02 compared
with 2023. Including share buy-backs, the total 2024 distribution to shareholders will amount to approximately EUR
1.05 per share, or 10% of our current market capitalisation.
All in all, 2024 was another strong year for Nordea.
I am grateful to our employees for their hard work,
and would also like to thank our customers and shareholders for their continued support and cooperation.
We enter 2025 as one of the top-performing universal
banks in Europe. We are targeting further strong financial performance and expect our full-year return on
equity to stay above 15%.
While global uncertainty persists, Nordea is in a
strong position – as a leading financial services group in
one of the best places in the world to do business. The
Nordic region is characterised by resilience, innovation
and opportunity, and we are proud to play our part in its
success. That is our mindset: humble, yet determined to
help our customers realise their dreams and aspirations,
deliver market-leading returns for shareholders, and
contribute to Nordic prosperity.