Adaptation and development – ready
for future opportunities
The company has experienced an exceptionally challenging year in 2024. The fluctuating market environment and existing uncertainty have continued
to prolong decision-making among end customers
and dampen investment willingness. Economic
recovery has been slow, and although expectations
of declining interest rates realized at the end of 2024,
a clear turnaround for the better is yet to be seen.
The geopolitical situation, particularly in the European
operating environment, remained and continues to
be quite difficult. Europe's economy faces structural
challenges due to factors such as Russia's ongoing
war of aggression in Ukraine and the complexities of
the green transition. Economic uncertainty remains
evident in the early part of this year, and growth prospects have clearly shifted towards the latter half of 2025.
Norrhydro had to adapt its operations in 2024 to align
reduced volume and order backlog levels. Despite
cost discipline, we made determined investments
in product development and internal development projects to secure our future competitiveness.
On a positive note, we maintained a strong service
capability despite the challenging operating environment. Additionally, we continued executing the
company’s strategy according to the previously
established plan.
We once again invested in the product development of digital business solutions and participated
in implementing exciting NorrDigi® MCC and EMA
projects, which we anticipate will continue in 2025.
Our digital business has now reached the technology maturity phase, allowing us to transition
from an intensive product development phase to
a stronger focus on marketing and sales activities.
Participation in the FinnMetko trade fair in August
2024 was an even greater success than expected for
Norrhydro. Interest in our environmentally friendly
NorrDigi products was substantial, bringing us significant publicity and numerous potential new customers.
In 2024, we also achieved success in acquiring
new customers. In line with our company strategy,
new customer acquisitions are crucial for longterm growth. Following the market downturn in 2024, we expect our sales to recover at
a faster pace than the overall market growth.
Towards the end of 2024, we focused on further developing the operations and processes of our production facility. The orders received for NorrDigi EMA
products brought variety and further development
to our production. From the outset, our production
facility was designed with the serial production of
NorrDigi products in mind. However, last year, we had
several excellent opportunities to deepen our expertise in producing larger batches of electric cylinders.
Inflation has gradually stabilized at a moderate level,
and the price trends and availability of raw materials,
components, and materials have improved in the right
direction. As always, we will closely monitor market
development and ensure the continued efficiency of
our global supply chains. We remain committed to
meeting our customers’ expectations in the coming
year and will continue taking actions to strengthen
our market position. In line with our motto, we aim
to remain a "Partner in Success" for our customers.
For 2025, we anticipate revenue growth driven by
increasing volumes from our existing customers,
additional sales from ramping up new customers,
and the expansion of our digital business. Thanks
to these positive factors, we also expect the company's profitability to improve compared to 2024.
Once again, we move forward with confidence,
convinced that growth will materialize—only the
exact timing remains uncertain.