The highlights of 2024 included significant
growth leaps in Sweden: Acquisition of
Essinge Rail AB and strengthening of railway
clientele and service offering 
Despite the challenging operating environment and geopolitical uncertainties in 2024, we successfully continued to grow the international
railway business and improve profitability. We opened new container
train routes in Sweden and acquired the Swedish rail logistics company
Essinge Rail AB. The acquisition was part of our international growth
strategy, which focuses on customer-oriented rail transport.
The good growth prospects of our international railway business are
supported by our extensive and well-functioning service network as well
as the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, which requires
companies to take action to reduce the Scope 3 emissions in their supply
chains in order to achieve climate targets.
Net sales for 2024, EUR 104.8 million, decreased by 18.1% year-on-year.
The decline in net sales was due to a security threat to the Suez Canal
that we announced in the summer, which resulted in the loss of significant
customer volume through the canal. Despite this, we were able to achieve
a strong result and improve our comparable relative profitability, with a
comparable net operating result of EUR 19.1 million, or 18.2% of net
sales. The comparable net result attributable to the equity holders of the
parent company improved significantly. Our good profitability is the result
of careful cost management, strong operational efficiency in the railway
business and adapting the entire Group’s operations to market conditions.
In 2024, we laid the foundation for future growth by investing heavily in
the development of new international railway services and the partnership
network. In addition, we started the integration processes related to
acquisitions. Our successful financial performance is reflected in our
strong financial indicators: gearing excluding IFRS 16 items was 35.3%,
interest-bearing net liabilities relative to EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 items
was 0.59 and the equity ratio was 40.7%. In 2024, we achieved a high
return on equity of 30%.
The management and operating efficiency of our subsidiary, North Rail
Oy’s, are among those of the world’s leading railway operators when it
comes to measuring the locomotive utilisation rate, resource efficiency
and customer satisfaction. We can see that there is also growing demand
for this competence internationally.
In 2024, we also completed the licensing processes related to the deliveries of energy raw materials to the Finnish and Swedish markets, but
the financial targets set for the service have not yet been achieved.
The net sales for the fourth quarter of 2024 amounted to EUR 22.9 million
and the comparable net operating result was EUR 3.7 million. The railway
business developed positively during the financial period, but the Cargo
business was encumbered by the weak development of Finnish foreign
trade. The lack of customer volumes due to the shutdown of the Suez
Canal had a negative impact on the Baltic operations.
We are seeking growth especially in rail transport in the FMCG product
groups, where we believe that the delivery terms will change as large
retail chains move freight to rail transport to an increasing extent, accelerated by the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. The
company’s dependence on the development of the Finnish economy will
decrease and we will be able to join the clearly larger and stronger Swedish market. We have also started rail transport from Gothenburg to
Haparanda and from there to Finland, which is important for the future of
Finnish exports and imports. This transport connection brings security of
supply and cost competitiveness to customers and safeguards security
of supply during exceptional times in Finland.
The company has a strong market position, unique railway expertise and
an extensive route network, strong customer understanding and efficient,
high-quality customer service. Our competitive advantages enable us to
further increase shareholder value and strengthen our market position.
Although uncertainties in geopolitics and the economy may have a negative impact on the development of our business, we are going into 2025
with a positive mindset to grow.
I would like to warmly express my gratitude to our dedicated employees
for their excellent work input and thank our customers for their valuable
support and trust. 