Steadily driven by our new strategy
2024 was our renewed strategy’s first year. We focused on profitable, sustainable
growth and invested especially in people, the development of our diverse product
range and the use of data. We achieved an excellent performance in a challenging
market: our net sales, operating result, and sales volume all grew. We provided
consumers with 7 million moments of enjoyment, every day.
We were able to maintain and grow our strong
market shares and improve our profitability despite
consumers’ weak purchasing power and intensified
competition. The first year of our strategy showed
that we are heading in the right direction. I would
like to thank every Olvi employee, as well as all our
customers and partners, for enabling this great
performance.
In 2024, we invested in our skilled people by reforming
the organisation and strengthening it with new roles,
increasing training and developing leadership. Our
heritage and unique culture are our strengths, and
cherishing them plays a significant role in engaging
our employees.
We invested in our data capabilities by developing
and harmonising our systems and processes, enabling
better data-driven leadership. We strengthened the
efficiency of our production and supply chain, which
was reflected for example in Finland through recordhigh delivery accuracy during the summer, despite
the exceptionally warm weather. We continued our
investments in both Iisalmi in Finland and locally in our
other countries of operation.
We focused on optimising and developing our product
range to meet local customers’ and consumers’ needs,
and agilely responded to changes in the operating
environment. We invested in the multi-channel
availability of our products and interesting product
launches. In line with our strategy, we also increased
the share of non-alcoholic products in our total
volume.
Sustainability is an essential part of everything we
do, and we took several significant steps towards our
goals. We developed the use of renewable energy,
reduced water use, and invested in understanding
human rights impacts and biodiversity. We strive
for carbon neutrality in our own operations
and throughout the value chain. Our long-term
sustainability efforts were recognised by the
renowned Time magazine: we were ranked on the
list of the world’s 500 most sustainable growth
companies, which was published for the first time.
In this strategy period, we are aiming for profitable
growth and an EBIT level of more than 12%, which we
successfully exceeded in 2024. We are determined
to continue strengthening our competitiveness
and improving the profitability of our core business
by developing our capabilities and product range.
We are also actively seeking inorganic expansion
opportunities to accelerate growth. We strive to
sustainably increase shareholder value and provide
more than 10 million moments of enjoyment in
consumers’ lives, every day.
Our vision is to be the most wanted multi-local
beverage house. In 2025, we will continue to
implement our strategy systematically, both at Group
level and locally, guided by our values and through
strong partnerships – positively and together.