Exceptional year
2024 The year 2024 was very exceptional in the
history of OmaSp. The development of both
main sources of income, net interest income
and fee and commission income and expenses
net, continued in line with expectations.
The cost/income ratio remained at a
good level despite the significant
investments made during the
year in the development of
risk management processes
and the implementation of
an extensive action plan. The
acquisition of Handelsbanken
AB's Finnish SME business,
the expansion of the distribution
network to Vaasa, Kuopio and Vantaa,
and the launch of a new K-Business Credit
card for SMEs in cooperation with K Group
strengthened OmaSp's market position.
As expected, changes in market interest
rates were reflected in the development of
net interest income during 2024, and net
interest income increased by 8 percent for
the whole year. Our customers value our
personal and easily accessible service model.
This was reflected in the development of
the number of customers, which remained
despite an exceptional year at a good level.
With Handelsbanken's business acquisition,
OmaSp gained approximately 10,000 new
customers in the autumn, and in addition
to this, approximately 1,000 new customer
relationships were organically created every
month. In particular, fee and commission
income and expenses net were increased by
card and payment fees, which grew
by 10 percent from the previous
year. Fee and commission
income and expenses net
increased in total by 7
percent for the full year.
During the autumn, the
focus of the business was
especially on the reception
of customers who transferred
from Handelsbanken and the
start of operations in three new
branches. With the expanded distribution
network OmaSp now has excellent coverage
in all of Finland's key growth and provincial
centers.
OmaSp's loan portfolio and deposit base
were boosted by volumes transferred from
Handelsbanken. The portfolio of housing loans
grew by 5 percent, corporate loan portfolio by
8 percent and deposits by 6 percent from
a year ago.
Profit before taxes was EUR 74.6 million and
comparable profit before taxes was EUR 86.7
million for the full year. The balance sheet total
was 7.7 billion euros at the end of the year.
Non-compliance with
the guidelines required
resources and investments
In the early part of the year, as a result of
our own control processes, we detected
non-compliance with the guidelines, as a
result of which the bank's credit risk position
deteriorated materially for certain customer
groups. The event was motivated by a violation
of instructions related to lending, as a result
of which individual customer entities had
been deliberately formed with incorrect and
incomplete information.
In June, the Board of Directors of OmaSp
submitted an investigation request to the
police for non-compliance with the guidelines
and launched an extensive action plan as a
result of serious incidents. One of the measures
was to ensure the quality of the entire loan
portfolio by external, independent experts. It
was important to obtain external confirmation
that the majority of OmaSp's loan portfolio
corresponds to those previously reported
and that the review did not reveal any new
problems beyond those already identified. We
were assured that the problem was limited to
approximately EUR 240 million from OmaSp's
loan portfolio and, in light of the specified
information, was approximately four percent of
the Company's EUR 6 billion loan portfolio. Accumulation of impairment
losses on financial assets was
significantly affected by noncompliance with the guidelines and
related additional allowances. In
2024, credit losses amounted to
approximately EUR 84 million,
of which approximately EUR 64
million were related to noncompliance with the guidelines.
As a result of the events, key
personnel in senior positions changed,
and we made significant investments in risk
management and renewed our lending process
during the year. We invested in additional risk
control resources, developed processes for
independent operations, and supported the
competence development of our personnel. 
uring the year 2024, EUR
8.3 million was invested in
risk management processes,
and comparable costs increased
by 19% compared to the
previous year.
The Finnish Financial
Supervisory Authority
(FIN-FSA) carried out audits
of the Company during 2024.
The observations raised by the
supervisor and the development
targets already identified by the
Company supported each other. The measures
to develop the processes are proceeding
well on schedule, and the goal is to complete
the planned development measures planned
during 2024 in the first half of 2025. Customer and employee
satisfaction at the center
of everything
OmaSp's competitive advantage has been and
will continue to be built on excellent customer
experience. According to research, customer
and personnel satisfaction have remained at
an excellent level as in previous years, despite
the exceptional year. Our personnel is our
most essential resource, so committed and
motivated personnel play a vitally important
role for OmaSp's future success. The renewed
Board of Directors of the Company started
its work in December, and we have got five
experienced Board experts to strengthen the
bank's operations. In addition, the Company’s
new CEO, Karri Alameri, will start his work in
April at the latest.
OmaSp's financial position is stable, and
the Company's solvency and liquidity position
is at a good level. The total capital (TC) ratio
was 15.6 percent at the end of the year and
the accumulation of equity was nearly
EUR 580 million. After the changes implemented in 2024, we
will now be able to focus on our core business
and strengthen the customer experience of our
existing and new customers. OmaSp's ambition
is to enable and solve the needs of households
and small and medium-sized enterprises in all
areas of the bank's operations. The history of
OmaSp stretches back 150 years. From these
strong starting points, we will continue the year
2025 with confidence. Warm thanks to all customers and owners,
and especially to OmaSp’s personnel for
2024! 
