Growth through strategy
implementation
For Oriola, 2024 was a good year, marked by sales growth and
improved profitability. Throughout the year we progressed well
with our refined strategy. In 2024, the value of the pharmaceutical distribution
market grew at a steady pace both in Sweden and Finland.
Growth was driven especially by increased demand for
high-value pharmaceuticals. Challenges in the availability
of pharmaceuticals continued across Europe. Cost inflation
slowed down, driven by stabilised energy and fuel prices, while
consumer confidence remained at a weak level.
Net sales growth and improved profitability
In 2024, Oriola’s organic net sales growth reached 3%, driven by
both distribution and wholesale. Excluding the Swedish dose
dispensing business, adjusted EBIT exceeded last year’s level,
amounting to EUR 21.6 million.
In the Distribution segment, net sales grew by 14.8% to EUR
1,364.7 (1,189.0) million. The rise in net sales was supported
by growth in the pharmaceutical distribution market and a
customer transitioning from consignment stock to Oriola’s
inventory in Q3. Organic net sales growth was 2.5%. Adjusted
EBIT increased to EUR 19.0 (14.5) million. Profitability
improvement was supported by lower freight costs and
operating expenses compared with the previous year. In 2024, a strategic focus area within distribution was to enhance customercentricity through close relationships with customers, applying a
structured approach and increasing dialogue with them. Thanks
to these efforts, we retained all strategic accounts and have new
customers onboarding at the start of 2025.
In the Wholesale segment, net sales grew by 3.3% to EUR 315.6
(305.7) million. The rise in net sales was supported by growth
in the wholesale business in Sweden and Finland, and advisory
services. Adjusted EBIT increased to EUR 9.5 (8.9) million. During
the year – in line with our refined strategy – we built the base to
grow the wholesale business in Finland and Sweden by developing
our capabilities and competences as well as by expanding our
offering. This took somewhat longer than anticipated but we
achieved a gradual increase and in the end a strong Q4 with
double-digit growth in key sales channels. In advisory services,
the recently launched data-driven service that provides market
insights to support pharmaceutical companies in their decisionmaking, quickly gained traction among our customers.
During 2024, we have lowered our debt level and at the end of the
period, interest-bearing net debt amounted to EUR -37.4 (-20.6)
million. Cash and cash equivalents were EUR 113.5 (138.4) million. The Board of Director’s proposes to the Annual General Meeting a
dividend of EUR 0.07 (0.07) per share be paid for the financial year
2024, equating to a dividend yield of around 8%.
Strategy execution for growth
During 2024, we made steady progress towards becoming
the leading specialist in wholesale of pharmaceuticals and
health products. In line with our refined strategy, we focused
on strengthening customer-centricity and building strong
partnerships, expanding our wholesale business and enhancing
efficiency.
We acquired new distribution customers leveraging our wide
service portfolio and our advanced logistics capabilities. We also
renewed existing distribution agreements and strengthened our
warehouse capabilities to better serve the growing e-commerce
sales channel. Considering the upcoming deregulation of the
pharmacy market in Finland, we continued to prepare and build
our capabilities to increase our services to customers.
To grow our wholesale business, we introduced new products and
suppliers to our portfolio. By offering a wide range of products,
we better meet our customers' needs and market trends and can
provide the convenience of obtaining everything they need from a
single partner. We also expanded to new sales channels to ensure
our products are widely accessible in Finland and Sweden. Another
focus area was to develop our own brands, such as Gefilus lactic
acid bacteria products and Apteekkarin, and to introduce Dexal to
the Swedish market.
In response to the growing need for market data and insights, we
launched Oriola Insights in 2024. This data-driven service provides
insights into healthcare patterns and pharmaceutical usage,
supporting pharmaceutical companies in their decision-making
and market access strategies.

The process to sell Svensk dos AB to Apotekstjänst Sverige AB, as
announced in October 2023, continued throughout the year. The
process was prolonged due to competition authorities’ decision
to prohibit the sale due to negative effects on competition in the
market. Apotekstjänst Sverige has appealed the decisions, and
a final ruling is expected in March 2025. Oriola’s position on the
tender market structure and the recovery of the dose dispensing
business in Sweden remains unchanged.
We are investigating options to develop our logistics operations in
Finland in the long-term. No decisions regarding this were made in
2024, whereby our options remain the same: develop the Mankkaa
site to be a modern warehousing and distribution centre, find a
new facility with capabilities to incorporate logistics operations,
or build a completely new modern logistics centre. The timing
will naturally depend on the chosen option but will be at the least
three years from the decision.
Infrastructure investment progressed as planned
One of our strategic priorities throughout the year was to
proceed with the investment to renew our enterprise resource
planning (ERP) and warehouse management systems (WMS).
We reviewed and harmonised our business processes to ensure
consistency and common ways of working across the company.
As planned, we completed the design phase by the end of the
year.
This strategically important investment will enable us to better
respond to current and future customer and business needs.
Access to common data will also strengthen collaboration and
improve transparency, helping us to enhance customer service.
Strong commitment to develop leadership
Last year, we actively engaged with our people, focused on
building a collaborative working culture and developed leadership.
As a key step in our long-term development plan, we introduced
the Core Leadership Programme in 2024. Through this programme,
we aim to further develop our leaders and influencers while
building a culture that aligns with our refined strategy. During the
first year we involved more than 50 people in the programme
and are expanding it further in 2025.
New operating model
At the end of the year, we announced plans to renew our
operating model. This change aims to accelerate strategy
execution, increase growth opportunities and improve
efficiency. By establishing a common sales organisation and
two commercial units – Services and Products, and Advisory
Services – we can further enhance customer-centricity and
strengthen our focus on sales growth. Sustainability – key enabler of strategy
We believe that a sustainable future starts with health. Through
our role as a wholesaler of pharmaceuticals and health
products, we positively impact society and people’s lives.
Sustainability is a key enabler of our business strategy and an
integral part of our daily work. It is also increasingly important
to our stakeholders. Throughout the year we engaged with
customers to understand their expectations on sustainability
and the need for transparent reporting. Our sustainability agenda, which extends until 2026, drives our
actions forwards and supports us in reaching our ambitious longterm sustainability goals.
We are proud of our societal role in ensuring safe and accurate
deliveries of pharmaceuticals and other health products. A key
indicator to measure our success is the picking quality of our
deliveries, which in 2024 reached 99.8%, well above our target.
As part of advancing a sustainable people journey, we
introduced a new People Policy at the end of 2024, and our
leadership index reached the same level as last year at 79.
On our path to pursue net-zero impact on climate, we focus on
using resources efficiently and decreasing emissions. We have
reduced emissions in our own operations by 90% compared with
the base year 2019. In 2024, we committed to setting sciencebased emission reduction targets for both our own operations
and value chain, reflecting our ongoing efforts to contribute to
limiting global warming to 1.5°C. We expect our targets to be
validated in 2025.
Oriola’s first Sustainability Statement
In 2024, Oriola received a gold rating in the EcoVadis
sustainability assessment for the second consecutive year. This is
a testament of our long-term sustainability efforts and the high
quality of our operations.
Throughout the year, we developed our sustainability reporting
to meet the extensive requirements of the EU’s Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). This Annual Report
includes Oriola’s first Sustainability Statement prepared
according to the standards and assured by a third party.
A year of integration for Kronans Apotek
In 2024, the joint venture company Kronans Apotek continued
to develop its network of almost 500 pharmacies and enhance
its e-commerce sales. With a total market share of 21%,
ranking third in size in the Swedish market and experiencing
double-digit growth in the digital sales channel, the company
is well-positioned to further improve its profitability and
competitiveness in 2025.
The focus in 2024 remained on integrating the two companies.
The integration process has been more complex and slower
than expected, especially related to the ERP integration and
organisation setup. Oriola expects Kronans Apotek to reach
profitability level representing industry benchmark by 2027.
The year 2025 presents several opportunities to Kronans Apotek,
with a focus on customer convenience and building a relevant
assortment for consumers. The company will also ensure
operational stability, develop its internal working culture, and
complete the integration of the two companies.
Kronans Apotek is a key strategic partner for Oriola, and we will
actively support its value creation as a major shareholder.
Well-positioned to accelerate strategy execution
I am very pleased with our achievements and financial
development in 2024 and look forward to continuing this path in
2025.
We are well-positioned to accelerate our strategy execution to
become the leading specialist in wholesale of pharmaceuticals
and health products. We will continue to stay close to our
customers, listen to their needs, and grow with them.
The diligent work on our infrastructure investment will continue
as the first deployment in Sweden approaches. Additionally, we
are committed to developing our culture and leadership, and
to work as one team to generate the best possible value to our
customers, shareholders and society at large.
I want to extend my sincere gratitude to all our employees for
their hard work and dedication throughout the year. Your efforts
have been instrumental to our achievements. I also wish to thank
our customers, partners and shareholders for their continued
support and trust in us.