Orthex purpose is to improve consumers’ everyday life with practical, beautiful, and durable products. We want to be the most sustainable choice for the consumers and offer timelessly designed, high-quality and safe products that are increasingly made from recycled and renewable raw materials. At the same time, we reduce the carbon footprint of our products and aim towards carbon-neutral production. The year 2024 was characterized by low consumer confidence and customer carefulness, leading to a slower than normal business climate. Despite this, the full-year net sales were the highest ever so far and grew by 4.4% to 89.7 million euros (85.9). The adjusted EBITA for 2024 declined and was 10.2 million euros (10.9). Considering the one-time energy price compensation received in 2023 in Sweden (0.7 million euros), the comparable EBITA improved by 0.6%. The profitability was affected by higher costs related to increased production cost as factories were planning for higher sales, reinforced commercial resources, and salary inflation. Towards the end of the year, the profitability was negatively impacted by higher credit loss provisions as well. The full-year net cash flows from operating activities increased by 16.1% to 11.8 million euros (10.2). The net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio (leverage) was down at a healthy 1.4 (1.5) at the end of the period. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend payout of 0.22 euros per share, totalling 3.9 million euros and 63.9% of net profit meaning an increase in both dividends and in percentages compared to the year 2023. Sales by geography Strengthened by a solid first half of the year, the consolidated full-year total invoiced sales increased by 4.9%. Invoiced sales in the Nordics increased to 71.1 million euros from 68.7 million euros in 2023. Invoiced sales in the Rest of Europe increased by 10.0% to a record of 20.3 million euros (18.5) meaning that we reached our long-term invoiced sales growth target +10% outside the Nordics. In the end of the year, shipments to some customers were restricted due to increase in credit risks, and this had a negative impact on the sales growth outside the Nordics. Sales by product category The Storage category continued to grow at a pace of 5.9% compared to the previous year. Orthex is focusing on launching several new products in the Storage category. The modern range of SmartStoreTM Essence storage baskets made from recycled material was a remarkable new launch in 2024 and it was also recognised at the German Design Awards 2024 for its excellent product design. The Storage category accounted for 68.9% of total invoiced sales in 2024. Kitchen and Home & Garden categories are traditionally strong in the Nordics, and the Kitchen category’s invoiced sales grew by 4.1% year-on-year thanks to widening customer distribution and the successful rebranding of SmartStoreTM food storage products. The Home & Garden category invoiced sales remained flat compared to the previous year. Accelerated sales with instore visibility Our growth strategy with a focus on accelerated European and international growth with a strong commitment to sustainability is progressing well. Orthex’s full-year invoiced sales in our European strategic markets grew by 10.0%. We focused on in-store visibility and an example of this is the building of over 500 SmartStore™ shelf implementations in major retail chains around Europe and the Nordics. We continued strengthening our international commercial teams, with more local resources in France and Germany. The stronger international presence is intended to accelerate future growth in the area. Invoiced sales outside the Nordic markets accounted for 22.9% (21.9) of Orthex’s invoiced sales in 2024. Our journey towards carbon neutrality Orthex’s main sustainability target is to aim towards carbon neutrality in production by 2030. In 2024, Orthex joined the Circular Economy Green Deal and committed to replace virgin raw materials with recycled and renewable raw materials. We have an ambitious target to increase the share of recycled and renewable raw materials in our production to 80% by 2030. In 2024, the share of recycled and renewable materials increased to 16.6% (2023: 15.8%). We invest in novelties Orthex invests in novelties on a continuous basis. One of our latest novelties is a stackable sorting solution Stack-it, an addition to our award-winning SmartStore™ Collect range. As sorting requirements grow, we are expanding this range to meet consumer needs and helping retailers to offer products that solve daily sorting and waste sorting needs. Made entirely from recycled plastic, this product range marks another step towards our sustainability goals and Orthex’s ongoing commitment to increase the use of recycled and renewable materials in production. We have a rich program of new exciting products to be launched in the coming year and we are working systematically to improve the distribution of already launched novelties. Solid performance The business climate in 2024 was characterized by careful consumer behaviour and customer uncertainty. Although inflation pressures slowed down, and interest rates started decreasing during the year, demand did not recover remarkably. Orthex managed, however, to grow its full-year invoiced sales in all product categories and on all geographical markets ending the year with a record sales quarter. Even if I had anticipated more favourable operating conditions and stronger growth, I am convinced that our performance builds the momentum for the future. I am incredibly proud of the teamwork, individual efforts, and dedication of our employees in executing our growth strategy. I want to extend my heartfelt thank you to everyone at Orthex for their significant contributions throughout the year, and to all our customers and stakeholders for their trust in Orthex.