Ready for
the next
upturn after
a challenging
year
The year 2024 was challenging for
Outokumpu in the weak economic
environment and uncertain geopolitical
situation. However, with our strong
financial position and a positive longterm outlook for the global stainless
steel industry, we look confidently
towards the future. Outokumpu’s profitability in 2024 reflected a weaker part
of the global stainless steel cycle. The adjusted EBITDA
decreased to EUR 177 million (EUR 517 million), mainly
driven by the challenging market environment, including a
high import pressure, in both Europe and North America
but also the negative EUR 60 million impact of the fourweek political strike impacting our operations in Finland in
the first half of the year.
Despite the changing conditions, we maintained our strong
market positions in both of our main markets, Europe and
North America. The year 2024 ended with Outokumpu
remaining the stainless steel producer with the strongest
balance sheet in the industry. Together with good liquidity,
this provides us with a good starting point for the new year.
It has also been a year of change with a new CEO and new
CFO. Transition has been smooth, as we both have a long
history with Outokumpu. Before starting as President and
CEO, I was a member of the Outokumpu Board of Directors
for eight years, and our new CFO Marc-Simon Schaar has
worked for Outokumpu in various roles since 2011.
Taking care of tomorrow
I am proud that we kept our leadership position in
sustainability, and we made good progress with our smart
decarbonization strategy, focusing on high use of scrap,
usage of low-emission and renewable energy and targeted
investments in biocoke. Since 2016, we have now
successfully reduced our emissions by 32%, in line with our
climate target. A critical enabler, the share of recycled
material content, remained at a high level of 95%, the
highest in the industry.
As a result, our carbon footprint is up to 75% lower than
the industry average. In 2024 alone, we supported our
customers in reducing their emissions by 10 million
tonnes. Demand for our low-emission European
ferrochrome has remained favorable, even in a challenging
market environment, and with a green premium.
Circle Green, one of Outokumpu’s innovations, can support
our customers to reduce their emissions even further. The
carbon footprint of Outokumpu Circle Green® is up to 93%
lower than the global industry average. This means that it
represents the lowest carbon footprint achieved in
commercial stainless steel production, with current
production technology. We believe that accelerating the
green transition through supporting our customers to
reduce their emissions with low-emission stainless steel is
a competitive advantage for us. Moreover, stainless steel
plays itself an important role in the green transition – in
electrification, transport and infrastructure, for example.
Focus on competitiveness
In Europe, it is critical to protect our own, already very
sustainable industries. Outokumpu is a front-runner in lowemission stainless steel production, and there is a clear
demand for it in the market. Regulation, for example the
EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), aims
to limit carbon leakage in Europe and could enforce the
competitive advantage of those producers who already
have a low carbon footprint. As a result, we have a strong
position compared to imports from many countries – but it
is up to Europe to ensure that CBAM will be effective and
works as intended.
At the same time, further trade defense measures are
likely and as they might possibly influence the global trade
flows, we need to take care of the competitiveness of
Europe in the global economy. Europe must be fast to
react and protect its critical steel industry from unfair
competition – current trade measures are not enough. The
same goes also for the North American market, where the
import pressure significantly increased during last year.
In a highly competitive industry such as stainless steel,
where conditions change, it is important for us to
continuously improve profitability. We are the market
leader in Europe and a strong number two in North
America and want to secure those positions.
Securing financial strength
In the current weak cycle of stainless steel, we focus on
the factors we can control to improve profitability and
maintain a healthy financial condition. This is the way to
handle this low point of the demand cycle and secure the
financial strength of Outokumpu. I am pleased that our
EUR 350 million EBITDA run-rate improvement actions are
progressing. In 2024, we achieved EUR 101 million
enhancement, which translates into a cumulative
improvement of EUR 287 million. We also proceeded with
our plans to reduce our direct emissions and replace fossil
coke with bio-based solution and decided to invest in a
biocarbon plant in Germany.
We look further and are working on the next strategy
phase, for which we will get back in our next Capital
Markets Day in June 2025. Whilst we prepare for that, it is
important to ensure our competitiveness also in the shortterm. For the year 2025, we have initiated decisive shortterm cost-saving measures of EUR 50 million to be
delivered and cut our planned capital expenditure to EUR
160 million. Additionally, we have already announced
some strategic decisions. While our long-term view on the
U.S. market remains positive, in this market environment
Outokumpu is not proceeding with an investment for cold
rolling capacity expansion. Nor are we are planning to
move forward with the SMR development in Tornio, Finland.
Energy is not Outokumpu’s core business, but we are
looking for a partner that is interested in investing in
energy production.
Last but not least, we would not be where we are today
without our stakeholders. I want to thank our employees
for their efforts and commitment, our customers for their
business and trust, our suppliers for their co-operation, and
our shareholders for their continued support.