For Pihlajalinna, the year 2024 was successful. Our determined measures
strengthened the profitability of the business and the company’s financial
position as planned. We continued our strong organic growth and developed our operations in a goal-oriented manner in different business functions and partnerships throughout the Group.
Our diverse investments in the development of supervisory work and competence were visible. As a result, the employee experience and commitment were strengthened and sickness absences decreased. Pihlajalinna’s
leadership principles, which were launched in the first half of the year, will
also help us pave the way for this development work in the future.
Pihlajalinna’s customer satisfaction developed favourably during the year in
all measurable areas. The NPS of private healthcare services increased by
six units compared to the previous year. Our surgical operations had an NPS
of 96. The high quality of our hospital operations was also reflected during
the year in the high ranking of our freedom-of-choice hospital Jokilaakso,
Jämsä, in the quality statistics of the National Institute for Health and Welfare. Pihlajalinna's Sydänkaista remote care pathway was also selected
among the top three for the Finnish Medical Association's quality award.
Our revenue remained at the previous year’s level, EUR 704 million, despite
the major change in the business structure caused by the growth in insurance services and agreement amendments in complete outsourcing. Organic growth in consolidated revenue was nearly 8 per cent, exceeding the
market growth rate in 2024. Adjusted EBITA was Pihlajalinna’s best ever,
EUR 55 (38) million.
In Private Healthcare Services, we continued to grow as a partner to insurance companies, and in occupational healthcare, we focused on strengthening the share of value-added customer work. Successful expansion of the
offering enabled cost-effective and efficient care pathways. The segment's
organic growth was 11 percent.
In Public Services, 2024 was a year of adapting to the needs of wellbeing
services counties. Although revenue decreased as expected and in a controlled manner, profitability doubled. We demonstrated that efficient service production is also possible in the current challenging operating environment when working in cooperation with the wellbeing services counties.
Effective and sustainably provided healthcare services
As part of the Board of Directors’ report, we publish, as one of the first
among large companies, a sustainability report pursuant to the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive which entered into force in 2024.
The new Sustainability Reporting Directive is an opportunity to increase the
transparency of sustainability work and bring quality and comparability to
reporting. In the double materiality assessment carried out as the foundation for the sustainability reporting, we heard our stakeholders extensively
and specified the Group’s material impacts, risks and opportunities. The report presents them as part of the ESRS standards E1 Climate change, S1
Own workforce, S4, Customers and end-users and G1 Business conduct.
Sustainability is part of everything we do. Our thriving professionals ensure
that fast, purposeful and high-quality care pathways generate value for our
stakeholders. We strive for total cost-effectiveness for our partners in insurance company and occupational health cooperation as well as in the
public sector. 
We take care of our customers and invest in the multi-channel development of our services. We actively develop new impact-based services which
have the potential to promote health and wellbeing in society on a broad
scale. We want to ensure impactful healthcare services that do not focus
on producing outputs.
Thank you for 2024
The success of the year was driven by the cooperation of the entire organisation and commitment to the determined development of our operations.
Our work is persistent and creates a stable foundation for the company’s
profitable growth and value creation for stakeholders.
A warm thank you to all Pihlajalinna employees and partners for 2024. We
proved that we can succeed together.