Modest financial development characterised 2024. Financial uncertainties
also extended to Ponsse and the market
situation remained challenging throughout the year. Order intake was fairly
weak during the first part of the year
but improved in the latter half, driven by
the busy exhibition season. Challenges
in demand were also reflected in sales
of used machines and our stock levels
were high from start to finish.
Uncertainties in the forest industry
had a significant impact on the demand
for forest machines. While inflation
eased, the geopolitical situation caused
significant uncertainties in the market.
Interest rates remained fairly high in
some market areas. At the same time,
decreased purchasing power affected
private consumption and construction
volumes were very modest in Europe in
particular. Demand for wood was still
reasonably high, and in general, our
customers were kept busy throughout
the year. Our maintenance services performed well in the uncertain situation,
providing our customers with excellent
services globally.
At Ponsse, 2024 was a year of
major changes, as the company’s
operating model underwent significant
updates. A shift to a global organisational structure and reporting guidelines is
a key part of the new operating model,
which was adopted on 1 June 2024.
This change supports even better
customer service, strengthens competitiveness, increases cost effectiveness,
and improves operational efficiency
through shared practices. The new
operating model enables a customer-driven organisation, focused on sales and maintenance services, divided into
five market areas. 1) Nordic countries
and the Baltics; 2) Europe; 3) South
America; 4) North America; and 5) Asia,
Australia and Africa. This change is important considering Ponsse’s long-term
development, it has also burdened the
company’s personnel. The aim was to
plan the operating model respecting the
company’s values and culture, and its implementation will continue. At Ponsse,
customers are at the heart of it all and
the new operating model underlines the
importance of cooperation in enabling
our success.
Significant development was seen
in Ponsse’s Full Service agreement in
Brazil during the year. Its profitability
continued to challenge the company,
which is why Ponsse prepared for larger
than expected losses for the 2024 and
2025 contractual years during the second quarter. As a result of development
measures, the productivity and mechanical operating rate of machines covered
by the agreement improved, mainly in
line with the targets. Our development
work for the Full Service agreement continues, and our support for the Brazilian
market is strong. Ponsse’s factory in Vieremä performed excellently in 2024. There were
no problems in the availability of parts,
and the factory stayed on schedule
throughout the year. As the challenging
market situation weakened the company’s
order books, and the order books were
spread over a longer period, the factory’s
operations had to be adjusted at the end
of the year. However, a relatively large
number of machines were manufactured
despite the challenging situation, driven
by successful sales in the second half of
the year.
Rapid technological development
gives us good opportunities to develop
solutions that produce added value for our
customers. Our investments in R&D and
new technologies continued. As before,
we invested in the development of digital
services and in IT infrastructure. Ponsse’s
digital services cater for all the machines
delivered over the years that produce daily
data to enable the development of new
solutions. R&D and digital services develop
products and services for our customers
at an increasing pace, and productisation
remained active during the year.
Ponsse launched the updated PONSSE
Wisent and PONSSE Elk forwarders in
the smaller size category. Forwarder
models have been designed with a focus
on their agility and operator ergonomics.
Adjustable electric armrests are key new
features in operator ergonomics available
for all PONSSE models. The PONSSE
H7 harvester head with the PONSSE
Active Speed function was another significant new product. The function adjusts
the stem processing speed according to
the tree species and stem diameter to
save fuel. In digital solutions, a new advanced
version of PONSSE Manager, our forest
machine management system, was introduced, and the PONSSE High-Precision
Positioning solution was launched to help
machine operators pinpoint the machine
and harvester head location. And Ponsse
launched the wireless PONSSE Scale
loader scale system, which ensures optimal loads for forwarders. We were also
the first forest machine manufacturer to
launch the material concept for fossil-free
steel.
In addition to the development of products and technologies, we continued our
planned investments in improving our daily
activities. Ponsse started to build new
facilities for its service centre in Peyrat-leChâteau in Central France. Furthermore,
Wahlers Forsttechnik GmbH, a Ponsse
dealer since 1993, invested in new facilities in Eastern Germany and CDN ERGO
SP Z O.O in Poland. In 2024, Ponsse’s
technology company Epec opened its
new environmentally friendly Epec Smart
Factory, and Hydromec Inc, a Ponsse
dealer since 2024, celebrated the grand
opening of its new facilities in Amos SaintAugustin-de-Desmaures, Quebec, Canada.
Responsibility and sustainable development will be key success factors in our future and prerequisites for the continuity
of our operations. Here at Ponsse, we are
doing meaningful work as part of sustainable forestry. This motivates Ponsse
people and our entire international network. We believe that our technologies
and new business models give us more
opportunities to implement the principles
of sustainable development in forestry.
Productive harvesting that respects the
environment supports the regeneration
of forests and enables the use of valuable raw materials in long-lasting and
high-quality wood-based products. The
significance of renewable wood in replacing fossil raw materials is massive, and
innovation in the industry is fast-paced.
Our R&D activities continuously seek
climate- and nature-friendly solutions,
and we aim to become carbon-neutral in
our operations. We still have a long way
to go to achieve these goals, but we want
to get there and are heading in the right
direction.
The Ponsse culture, developed over
decades, is our asset, and our sustainable
development goals have given it new
strength. We have excellent new values:
we truly care; we work for our customers;
we are honest; and we are open for
renewal. These values constitute the
Ponsse spirit, in which “we” is always more
important than “I”. The Ponsse spirit is
materialised in our everyday work and in
our attitudes towards each other. It is conveyed to our customers through our daily
activities, around which all the cooperation
and trust between us are built. We exist
for our customers.
Ponsse is a Finnish forest machine
company. We focus and will continue to
focus on the sale, maintenance, manufacture and R&D of Cut-To-Length forest
machines. Our customers and committed
and skilled personnel enable our success.

