This year was a year of many accomplishments
for the Posti team. With quick reactions to the
changing market environment and efficient
operational performance, we fought against
the market headwinds and were successful in
maintaining profitability at a great level. I would
like to express my thanks to the entire Posti team
for their good work and to our customers for
their co-operation and trust in us.
Group net sales decreased by 4.1% to EUR 1,521.4
(1,586.1) million. While we saw some increase in
ecommerce volumes, the general demand for
logistics services remained low. This resulted in
lower circulation of goods in our warehouses,
consequently impacting net sales negatively.
However, I am satisfied that we delivered a
successful peak season yet again. During the five
weeks before Christmas, we delivered 7 million
parcels and over 10 million Christmas cards.
Our adjusted EBITDA increased to EUR 207.6
(197.7) million. We were resilient in improving
operational efficiency and exercised cost
discipline throughout the year, which contributed
to the full-year profitability positively. In fact,
our relative adjusted EBITDA has improved for
ten consecutive years and ended up above
our long-term financial target for the full year
2024. We wanted to recognize employees for
their contribution and dedication by paying an
additional bonus installment of EUR 1.5 million to
the personnel fund.
Looking at the full year on the segment
level, the eCommerce and Delivery Services
segment’s adjusted EBITDA increased, whereas
net sales declined. Consumer ecommerce
volumes grew, while the business-to-business
deliveries declined. Fulfillment and Logistics
Services’profitability increased, while net
sales declined. The continued low economic
environment, particularly in the construction
market, impacted our warehouse fill rates, and
thereby net sales, negatively. Postal Services’net
sales decreased due to declined addressed letter
volumes, but profitability improved driven by
further improved operational efficiency.
Despite the market headwinds, we were
successful in adapting to changes in our
operating environment and maintained good
profitability.  With this in mind, Posti Group’s Extraordinary
General Meeting on December 20, 2024, decided
on an extra dividend of EUR 150.0 million,
totaling Posti Group’s dividend in 2024 to EUR
181.8 million.
Intense competition has continued in the
ecommerce market, and recommerce has
emerged as a very fast-growing segment. In
2024 we saw a growing number of secondhand
marketplaces, which increased recommerce
parcel volumes. The number of parcels
containing secondhand items transported by
Posti quintupled during the year, and we expect
this growth trend to continue.
During the year, we again took several steps
forward in our sustainability agenda and I
am proud that our work was recognized also
globally. Once again, EcoVadis awarded Posti
its highest platinum rating, placing us in the
top 1% of companies in the world. We were
awarded by our client Amazon for Excellence
in Emissions Reporting and by the CSR Coups
de Coeur Awards 2024 for the diesel-to-electric
truck innovation. Our ambition is to be a
leader in sustainability, and we will continue
our systematic work on this in line with our
sustainability program.
Looking ahead, we will remain cost-conscious
and continue implementing our updated
strategy, focusing on creating growth on
ecommerce, logistics and fulfillment services.
We’ll do this with determined teamwork and by
keeping our customer service in an excellent
level and taking care of our people.