Puuilo’s financial year 2024 results were marked by strong operational discipline. The company’s net sales and
profitability grew significantly, and we exceeded our guidance for the adjusted EBITA. The operating environment
wasn’t easy, but we managed to improve our performance.
In Q4, Puuilo’s net sales increased by 11.8% and was €85.8 million. Like-for-like net sales grew by 0.3%. The
customer traffic increased by 15.9% and by 3.8% on a like-for-like basis. During Q4, we opened new stores in
Äänekoski, and Kirkkonummi. The gross margin was 38.5%, and it increased by 1.8 percentage points. The
significant increase in the gross margin is explained by the increased share of private label products and the
change in the sales mix towards products with lower price point. We made strong progress in managing operating
expenses. The expense ratio to net sales improved compared to the previous year. In Q4, the adjusted EBITA
was €14.3 million, which corresponds to 16.6% of net sales. As a result, adjusted EBITA grew by 33.6%.
For the entire financial year, Puuilo’s net sales increased by 13.3% to €383.4 million. Like-for-like store net sales
increased by 1.5%. The increase in the customer traffic during the financial year was 16.8% and the growth in the
customer traffic in like-for-like stores was 4.3%. During the financial year, we opened seven new stores, which is
a record in Puuilo’s history. All the new stores have performed well. Gross margin was 37.7% and increased by
1.1 percentage points. The increase in gross margin is mainly explained by the factors mentioned earlier, such as
private label products and change in sales mix. In business functions, we improved our efficiency, which is reflected
in the reported result. For the entire financial year, adjusted EBITA increased to €67.0 million, which represents
17.5% of net sales and exceeds our long-term margin target. The growth in adjusted EBITA compared to the
previous year was reported at 23.8%.
Puuilo’s strong performance originates from the growth in the customer traffic, the increase in gross margin, and
the decrease in cost ratios. Despite the decrease in average basket size, net sales grew significantly due to strong
increase in customer traffic. The average basket size is still being pressured by the consumer uncertainty and
reduced purchasing power, which is reflected in the decline in sales of higher-price-end items. The weather also
plays a part in this. It must be said that this past winter has only remotely resembled winter in most of Finland, in
terms of temperature and snow.
We have made efforts to improve sales and the customer experience and enhance productivity. We have
completed the implementation of the replenishment order automation (Relex) and have moved into the production
phase. We have also successfully implemented workforce scheduling automation. Additionally, in logistics, we
have completed the necessary centralizations. These measures are already reflected in the reported figures and
will help us streamline our operations in the future and maintain the excellent performance we have achieved.
Furthermore, we will publish our first CSRD-compliant sustainability report alongside the annual financial
statements. We will also continue to implement our strategy, including increasing of our private label product
volume towards our target level.
The new financial year is already underway, and we are confident about it. We have seven new stores lined up
for the entire financial year, two of which, Varkaus and Savonlinna, have already been opened. After that, the
sausage grills will heat up in Lohja, Mäntsälä, Jyväskylä, Iisalmi, and Heinola. We are getting an excellent start to
the new financial year, as five of the new store openings listed above will take place in the first half of the year.
There is plenty of work and growth ahead, but this is very familiar territory for us!
We estimate that our net sales for the financial year 2025 will be in the range of €425 – 455 million and expect
adjusted EBITA to be between €70 – 80 million. The Board of Directors proposes for the Annual General Meeting
that a dividend of EUR 0.46 per share will be distributed based on the net result of the financial year 2024, which
corresponds approximately 81% of the net result and exceeds previous year’s dividend by more than 20%.
Additionally, the Board of Directors proposes for the Annual General Meeting that Puuilo pays a special dividend
of EUR 0.24. Thus, the company would pay a total dividend of EUR 0.70 per share to shareholders. With this excellent financial year, I want to thank our customers, personnel and shareholders and wish everyone
a successful and thriving spring!