Qt Group continued to execute its growth
strategy in 2024. Although we fell short of
our net sales growth targets due to the challenging market situation, our growth continued and our profitability was at an excellent
level. I would like to take this opportunity to
thank our personnel, developer community,
partners and customers — it has again been
a pleasure to work with you throughout the
year and build first-class software for the
global market.
Transformation into a multi-product company continued
Our transformation into a multi-product company continued
as planned during the year. We are now even more involved
in supporting our customers in increasing their productivity
throughout the entire product development process, from user
interface design and software development to quality assurance and testing.
The number of smart devices with a graphical user interface
continues to grow. An impressive and seamless user experience is a significant competitive advantage in the market. In
October, we released a new product version of our software
development platform, Qt 6.8. It includes numerous new features that significantly improve the developer experience and
meet the development needs of demanding applications. As the number of software applications increases, so does the
need for automatic software quality assurance and testing. We
continued to develop our Qt Quality Assurance product portfolio, which is used in quality assurance and testing in product
development activities, and we increased the sales of the portfolio — also for product development processes in which Qt’s
development environment and tools are not used. Our solution
delivers significant savings in time and resources for software
developers and accelerates time-to-market.
Investments in growth and information security
Qt Group’s excellent profitability enables growth investments
in areas of strategic importance. We continued to invest in
sales growth, and we expanded our sales focus particularly
to the quality assurance and testing business and customers
outside the Qt ecosystem. We also allocated investments
to research and product development in all of our product
areas. Our products enable our customers to work even more
smoothly throughout their entire organization.
Our growth investments, especially in strengthening our sales
and R&D organizations, were reflected in an increase in the
number of employees. We had 869 employees at the end of
2024. This represents a year-on-year increase of 12 percent.
We also significantly increased our investments in information security in 2024. Our holistic approach covers all aspects
of information security, by which we ensure the security of
our operations, products and customers. We were awarded
an ISO 27001:2022 certificate, audited and issued by KPMG,
which verifies the security of Qt Group’s operational activities and information with the help of an information security
management system (ISMS). We also started preparing for the
European Union’s Cyber Resilience Act. We want to ensure that our products comply with the Act and contribute to ensuring
that the products developed by our customers are safe and
secure throughout their entire life cycle.
More strong partners and users
We announced significant new partnerships in 2024. Going
forward, Infineon's graphics-enabled microcontrollers will be
available with Qt’s graphics solution and developer toolkit for
building graphical user interfaces.
We started a collaboration with Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
on the development of advanced graphical user interfaces and
software quality assurance for industrial IoT devices. The collaboration helps IoT manufacturers to significantly accelerate
their devices’ time-to-market. We are now also part of LG Electronics' automotive content platform, and are partnering with
LG Electronics to embed the Qt software framework for application development in LG’s webOS-based in-vehicle entertainment platform.
We also want to contribute to promoting the growth of the
number of Qt professionals. Qt’s cooperation with educational
institutions and the Qt Academy e-learning platform, established in spring 2023, continued to grow in popularity. The number of licenses for students and teachers increased by
63 percent, and the number of Qt Academy users grew by
193 percent, which means tens of thousands of new users.
We intensified our cooperation with educational institutions
by launching a university network called University & Talent
Network.
Qt Group's growth continues
Qt Group continued to grow in 2024. At comparable exchange
rates, net sales increased by 15.7 percent year-on-year.
Although net sales growth fell short of expectations, the
operating margin (EBITA %) was excellent at 34.1 percent, or
EUR 71.2 million. Sales of distribution licenses and consulting
were lower than expected, but the steady growth of net sales
accrued from developer licenses was a positive development.
We are in a good position in the global embedded software
markets, which hold significant potential. We are able to provide our customers with even higher value-added solutions,
and we are involved in their entire product development process, from user interface design and software development
to quality assurance and testing. 