AN EXCELLENT STARTING
POINT FOR A NEW ERA OF
RESPONSIBILITY
Europe is entering a whole new era of responsibility: For most
companies, the EU’s new Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Directive represents not only a reporting change, but above
all a cultural change, shifting sustainability from a separate
function to the core of the business. It also puts companies on
an equal footing, as the indicators used to monitor progress are
the same for all European operators.
We have an excellent starting point for the new era: at
Raisio, sustainability has been integrated into our strategy
for a long time, and we strive to do our part in building a
food system that is more sustainable for the environment
and human health. We make food from the heart because
we know that food has the power to transform our lives. Our
sustainability programme – Raisio’s Good Food Plan – takes
into account the health of the planet and its people, and looks
at the sustainability of our products all the way from primary
production through the factory to the table.
Over the years, we have already managed to get many of
the basics on track: our consumer packaging is recyclable, the
purchased energy used in our own factories and the energy we
produce ourselves are carbon neutral, 94% of the raw materials
we use
are plant-based and 87% of our products are healthy alternatives in their respective categories. Responsibility is never
complete: it takes hard work to maintain the level we have
achieved, as the work constantly becomes more challenging
and exacting. The further along we are, the harder it is to
take the next steps because the easy fixes have already been
done. At least with hindsight, it is reasonably easy to change
your own operations — e.g. scope 1 and 2 emissions — for
the better, but it is much more difficult to influence the whole
value chain and scope 3 emissions, for example. The more
companies there are doing this work and moving in the same
direction, the more likely it is that things will move forward.
More than 20 years of sustainability work is a good
foundation on which to build. In recent years, we have particularly improved our skills in managing risks in the supply chain,
especially human rights risks. At Raisio, we are committed
to supporting and implementing the core values related
to human rights, working life principles, the environment
and anti-corruption in our sphere of influence. Through our
responsibility work, we also support the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals, such as responsible consumption, health
and well-being, sustainable industry and water body health.