“We strategically strengthened our business in a challenging year, focusing on brand value, customer relationships, and market positioning in North America and Europe. Despite initial
commercial headwinds, we stabilized operations and created a robust
foundation for future growth. Our targeted efforts successfully improved
overall business performance
Our sales remained steady at 220.9 MEUR (221.6), and our comparable
operating profit increased to 6.2 MEUR (5.6). Our profitability improved in
both halves of the year, although H2 reported operating profit fell to -2.6
MEUR (-0.4 MEUR) due to one-off’s related to achieving lower operating
expense level in the future. Our inventory levels decreased to 84.2 MEUR
(87.5), demonstrating successful inventory management and sales optimization. Our operational cash flow was 23.4 MEUR (20.6), reflecting
improved net working capital and effective resource and operational
management. Our delivery reliability is among the highest in the industry,
and customer satisfaction has significantly improved.
Employee satisfaction has risen, with feedback from staff surveys being predominantly very positive. Our employees are our most important
resource, and we will pay even more attention to fostering a good team
spirit. We also streamlined our management team. Our strategy reflected
our commitment to advancing sustainability across our product offering,
customer engagement, global operations, and stakeholder relationships.
We are aiming to integrate sustainability into all aspects of our business.
North America remains our largest market area, where our position remained strong. The launch of the new Rapala CrushCity product range
has exceeded our expectations and has been one of the most successful market entries in recent years. This new product line has opened up
new consumer groups for us, particularly among younger enthusiasts,
who represent a growing and significant customer segment. CrushCity
has further strengthened our relationships with the largest retailers in
North America.
Another significant achievement has been the successful integration of
13 Fishing with Rapala USA. As a result of this initiative, 13 Fishing is now
profitable, and the product range has been revamped in both summer
and winter fishing products. Our customers have widely adopted the new
collection into their assortments.
Although there have been challenges in the European markets due to
consumer caution, we have succeeded in improving and streamlining
our operations. Our profitability in the region has improved during 2024.
The enhancement of operational efficiency is evident in shorter delivery
times and increased customer satisfaction. Our European sales focus
specifically on the sales and marketing of Rapala products as well as
Okuma rods and reels.
In the Asian markets, we have also seen growth in sales and profitability.
We have started selling Okuma products in Thailand and Korea. The
winter sports business has been challenging, but we have implemented
several measures to support sales.
Consolidation of lure and knife production to Estonia has yielded results:
inventories and lead times have significantly decreased, and we have
achieved substantial savings in operational costs. The implementation
of the Anaplan logistics tool has improved inventory quality and fill rates.
The development of new products is progressing on schedule, and our
product development organization’s collaboration across North America,
Europe, and the APAC regions adheres to the “Think Global – Act Local”
strategy. An example of this is the global success of the Rapala CrushCity product family in the soft lure market, where it has quickly risen to
become one of the best-selling products in its category on all continents.
Nearly all of our lures are designed in our modern product development
center in Vääksy, Finland.
The year 2024 has been a year of stabilization for us. We believe that
our renewed strategy will provide added value to our customers and
other stakeholders. We will continue to invest in growth and efficiency
to strengthen our position as one of the leading companies in the fishing
tackle market.”