A Year of Execution
2024 was an important year of execution for Raute, as we were
able to elevate our performance − both in terms of profitability and
operationally − to a new level. The year clearly demonstrated that
we are making good progress towards our strategic targets.
Enhanced capabilities
Throughout the year, we made strides in enhancing our capabilities in commercial
operations as well as in deliveries. Our performance-based service concept,
where we take full maintenance responsibility for the customer’s production
machinery, gained traction, and we made the first line delivery to the solid wood
segment, further expanding Raute’s offering. The use of artificial intelligence
and digitalization as part of our solutions also progressed, and in December, we
introduced the first AI-based defect detection for birch veneer composing. The
benefits of this solution are seen immediately in recovery and quality and the
potential is significant in further improving mill-level processes and operations
using Raute digital tools.
Sustainability was another focus area in 2024. Towards the end of the year, we set
the main KPIs and related metrics to measure the progress of our sustainability
goals. As regards to safety, we have launched a comprehensive program focusing
on employee health and safety, targeting zero accidents. The program has started
to change the way we approach safety, and, for example, the number of safety
observations increased during the year. Earlier in the year, we launched our
refreshed values, aiming at showing the way and driving change in the industry.
In connection with this, we worked on transforming the company culture to
become more agile and even more customer-centric than before. Improved profitability
Profitability clearly exceeded our initial estimation
thanks to solid project deliveries and improved
efficiency, and therefore we raised our financial
guidance twice during the year. Net sales also turned
out to be higher than we had expected.
Nevertheless, the operating environment was
challenging in 2024. While the underlying demand
for our products and solutions, partly driven by
sustainability and resource efficiency requirements,
has not changed, the uncertainty and weakness in
our key markets was clearly visible in the modest
order intake for new line orders and equipment. As a
bright spot, the order intake in Services business was
good and encouraging throughout the year. Overall,
our solid order book still provides a buffer against the
continued uncertain market conditions.
To conclude, I want to thank our personnel, customers
and suppliers for the continued good collaboration
and our shareholders for their trust. We have longstanding relationships with our customers and
partners, and I firmly believe this will provide us
with new opportunities when the cycle turns. I am
convinced that we have raised our performance
level on a sustained basis, and we will continue the
implementation of Raute’s growth strategy with
determination in 2025.