A Record Year for Relais Group
The year 2024 was a record year for us. We reached the highest Net Sales, EBITA, Net Profit
and Earnings per Share in the history of Relais Group Plc. The Return on Capital Employed
increased from 10.0% to 13.2% and the Return on Net Working Capital increased from 44.0% to
53.4%. This demonstrates the strength of our business model and strategy even during economically challenging times. During the last five years, we have practically tripled our net sales
and simultaneously more than doubled our profit. We have succeeded in establishing Relais
Group as a significant commercial vehicle aftermarket growth platform even on a European
level and created significant value for our shareholders.
Segment overview
Both of our geographical segments Finland and Baltics
and Scandinavia managed to reach a double-digit
turnover growth during 2024. The harsh winter conditions during the first quarter boosted the sales especially
in Finland, but also to a certain extent in Sweden. The
positive market development continued in both segments
in practice the whole year, and our sales developed
well even during the last quarter of the year despite the
relatively mild winter conditions. The Scandinavian market
showed robust growth during the year and also the Finnish
market improved during 2024 as opposed to the relatively
flat development during the earlier years. The turnover
growth of segment Finland and Baltics was +12% (organic:
+7%) and respectively +15% (organic: +9%) for the segment
Scandinavia.
Business Area overview
In the Technical Wholesale and Products business area
virtually all our Group companies grew their sales in a
significant way. The demand situation for spare parts
and equipment was strong in all our operating countries,
demonstrating the defensive nature of the vehicle aftermarket. The ageing vehicle parc demands more spare
parts and services, and during economically tough times
existing vehicles are used longer before changing into new
ones.
In addition, the long period of extremely low temperatures
during Q1 boosted the spare parts and equipment sales.
We also intensified our efforts in bringing new spare parts
under our private label product family “NPD”. We aim to
clearly increase the share of private label sales of our total
spare part sales in the coming years. Our broad product portfolio, excellent customer service
combined with our best-in-class digital customer interface
and efficient logistics gives us a unique position in this
market. We work in close partnership with our customers
and help them to do a better business, every day.
Looking closer at our Lighting product group, the year
2024 was yet another year of net sales growth. The export
success of our Strands brand continued especially in the
Central European markets. In the Scandinavian markets
we relaunched our Optibeam brand and introduced
several new products in that range. The main season
of the Lighting market starts typically during September-October. This year the season started somewhat later,
meaning that a relatively bigger part of the sales now
happened during fourth quarter. Although the absolute
majority of our Lighting products goes to business-to-business customers, consumer demand also plays an important role especially during the peak season in November-December. After a few years of sluggish consumer
demand our on-line sales to consumers showed encouraging development during Q4.
In the Repair and Maintenance business area the year
2024 was a year of continued and profitable growth.
The net sales of our commercial vehicle business area
grew with 15% (organic: 7%). Our operating units Raskone
(Finland), STS and Skeppsbrons (Sweden) continued their
strong performance. The targeted and strategic acquisitions of M Ahlqvist in Finland and Team Verkstad in Sweden
further strengthened our competitiveness and service
offering, especially in the trailer repair segment in Finland.
We continued to gain market share in strong and close
partnership with our customers in Finland and Sweden.
The continued work to increase the capacity utilization of
our workshops, including a systematic benchmarking and
implementation of best practices is giving real results also
in the profitability of this business area. In only a few years
the commercial vehicle repair and maintenance business
area has become a major profit and cashflow contributor
to Relais Group.
Acquisitions
We continued to scan the market for good acquisition
targets and have been engaged in several discussions
and negotiations with owners of relevant companies.
When looking at acquisition targets we search for companies having a stable financial track record, a well-managed business with a highly committed team and
perhaps most importantly, a solid path for future profit
growth as a member in the Relais family. During the year
2024, we completed two well-targeted acquisitions and
strengthened our commercial vehicle repair and maintenance business area with M Ahlqvist and Team Verkstad
joining our team.
We also intensified our acquisition efforts by empowering
the Group company management to actively engage
suitable acquisition targets within their specific area of
expertise. We expect that to increase the pace of acquisitions during the year 2025.
Sustainability and good governance
The year 2024 was important for us in advancing sustainability and good governance. We conducted our
first group-wide employee satisfaction survey, and the
results were encouraging. This provides a solid foundation for further developing our employee experience
and workplace. We also focused on strengthening HR
management and ethical business practices by creating a group-wide HR policy that provides guidelines
for personnel management and launching a Code of
Conduct training program for all employees. Additionally,
we clarified our internal governance model by standardizing the management of our group companies, which
has improved structural clarity and operational efficiency.
In 2024, we further developed our sustainability reporting
in accordance with European reporting standards, focusing on the Double Materiality Analysis. Our commitment
to sustainability is ongoing, and the steps taken in 2024 lay
a strong foundation for future development.
Outlook 2025
Relais Group’s strong performance in 2024 creates a solid
platform to continue the positive trend also during the year
2025. We expect the market demand to be on a stable
level in our operating countries. We also aim to increase
the pace of acquisitions and continue to create value for
our shareholders. We feel that we are well positioned to
continue our growth story also during 2025 and beyond.
Finally, I want to express my heartfelt thanks to all our over
1,200 professionals for your dedication and hard work
during the record year 2024. Additionally, I want to thank
all our customers, shareholders and business partners for
your support and commitment to Relais Group. We will
do our best to earn your trust also during the new fiscal
period.