The year 2024 was an eventful one for Remedy. Control rights
acquisition in February opened us a good opportunity in terms of
available future business models but also meant increased financing
needs. Throughout the year, we evaluated our options and built the
capabilities, partnerships and additional financing that enabled us to
move to self-publishing. We also concluded significant longer-term
internal developments that support all our games in development.
We now have solid foundations for sustainable, significant commercial
success during the following years. This can also be seen in our
updated strategy for the years 2025-2030, which was presented in
our Capital Markets Day in November.
In 2024 our revenue was significantly higher than a year before
and our EBIT improved, being clearly less negative than the year
before. Especially in the second half of the year we saw a turn in the
financials with a positive EBIT. We did not have new game launches
in 2024. Alan Wake 2 sales exceeded two million units during the
last quarter of the year, and by the end of 2024, Alan Wake 2 had
recouped its development fees and marketing investments,
meaning that Remedy started to accrue royalties.
A year of major developments
Large and far-reaching choices regarding Remedy’s future were
made throughout the year. As a result of acquiring the Control
franchise rights from 505 Games in February, agreeing on a strategic
cross-media partnership with Annapurna Pictures in August and
taking a convertible loan from Tencent in September, we can move
to self-publishing with FBC: Firebreak and Control 2.
With the internal developments done over the years, we have been
able to develop games with clearly better development velocity than
ever before. The games we have in development have significant
potential for us.
As per our strategy 2025-2030, we will launch on average one
new game per year and currently focus on four game projects
simultaneously. All this is made possible by our exceptionally
talented and passionate personnel who are devoted to making
amazing games for an expanding fan base of Remedy games. Game projects progressed with great velocity
Our game projects made great progress in 2024, supported by
several developments made to our teams, ways of working and to
the Northlight technology and tools. We launched two expansions
to Alan Wake 2 together with a physical edition, making the game
complete and the team able to move to other projects. Control 2
progressed to the production readiness stage in 2024 and to full
production in early 2025. The game team is dedicated to making
Control 2 a worthy sequel to the original award-winning game.
The plans are ambitious, and fans have every reason to be excited to
see what the future holds for this beloved franchise. FBC: Firebreak,
a co-operative multiplayer spin-off game of Control, is our first step
towards multiplayer games with post-launch content. The project
advanced in full production stage most of 2024, and as proved by
the first wider user tests in 2024, the game has very good potential.
We are looking forward to self-publishing the game in 2025.
The development team behind the Max Payne 1&2 remake performed
at a high level throughout the year and the project progressed to the
full production stage during the second quarter of 2024. Developing
a remake of this cult classic is a fantastic opportunity for Remedy,
and we are dedicated to bringing Max Payne back in a high-quality
form for new and existing fans alike.
A decision to move to self-publishing
In October, Remedy announced that FBC: Firebreak will be its first
self-published game and launch in 2025, and additionally, future
Remedy-owned games are to be self-published. Self-publishing
gives us the freedom to decide and execute on the best strategy
for maximizing the return from our games, and to select partners
that fully align with our strategy. It also enables closer collaboration
between the creative, technology, production and business functions.
All this together means better possibilities for higher value creation
with our future games.
The foundation for growth is in place
We start the year 2025 with great enthusiasm and determination.
In addition to further developing our internal capabilities, we focus
on advancing all four game projects we have in development. We
continue to have a special focus on our two established franchises:
Control and Alan Wake, which are linked through the Remedy
Connected Universe. Growing and expanding these franchises and
self-publishing the upcoming games will play a key part in our future.
We have developed our organization and capabilities a lot in the past
years and now have the ability to create and launch excellent games
more regularly, expand our franchises to new games and mediums,
grow our audiences and with all this, create much larger commercial
success. We see clear potential for significant future growth, and as
per our updated strategy, we aim to double the 2024 revenue and
reach an EBITDA margin of 30% by 2027.
I want to thank all our people and partners for the year 2024. I am
very optimistic that 2025 will mark the start of a true growth era
for us. Our greatest achievements are still ahead. 