The year 2024 showed an upward trend for us towards the
end of the year. Although the first quarter was soft, sales
picked up as the year progressed and the last quarter
culminated in an all-time sales record in December. This
year, fourth-quarter sales consisted of smaller individual
transactions, and unlike in the comparison period, there
were no significant large one-time orders. Reported net
sales increased by 4.8% in the fourth quarter, totaling 30.5
(EUR 29.1) million. Our exchange rate-adjusted net sales
for the fourth quarter decreased by 1.1%. Recurring revenue
from software licenses, service contracts and probe sales
accounted for nearly one-third of our total net sales, and we
expect its share to grow in the future.
One of the best performers in the industry
Our profitability was strong in the fourth quarter of the year.
Our scalable business model has proven to be very effective, and the growth in net sales was also reflected in good
profitability, which is among the best in our industry. There
were no significant costs from the US clinical trials related to
the iCare ILLUME marketing authorization process in the fourth quarter.
Growth and innovation from an eye care pioneer
Sales of intraocular pressure measuring devices, or tonometers, were strong in the fourth quarter. Sales were driven
particularly by single-use probes and the iCare ST500 slit lamp mounted tonometer we launched in the fall. Its launch and
marketing authorization in the US were significant achievements that strengthened our global position. In addition, sales
of the iCare HOME2 home measurement tonometer grew very strongly in the fourth quarter, although the volumes remain
moderate. Sales were also boosted by the iCare IC200, whose updated version featuring Quick Measure received marketing authorization from Chinese authorities during the financial year. iCare TONOVET Pro and iCare TONOVET Pet for
veterinary use performed well in the fourth quarter.
Sales of fundus imaging devices developed favorably, considering that the fourth quarter did not see significant one-time orders like in the comparison period. The iCare EIDON product family in particular performed strongly. Obtaining a marketing
authorization in China for the iCare EIDON, iCare EIDON AF and iCare EIDON UWF fundus imaging systems strengthens
our position as a pioneer in fundus imaging. We are preparing commercial deliveries of our new iCare MAIA microperimeter
in early 2025.
Our iCare ILLUME screening solution expanding into new markets, such as Germany and the Middle East, is an important
part of our growth strategy. The AI-powered RetCAD software by Thirona Retina, which we acquired in the third quarter, is
part of the iCare ILLUME screening solution, which has been very well received by our customers. RetCAD uses artificial
intelligence to screen fundus images for diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, and glaucoma. In 2024,
RetCAD already produced more than twice the number of patient reports compared to the previous year. The number of
iCare ILLUME screening sites also quadrupled in 2024. The iCare ILLUME screening solution is currently undergoing the
marketing authorization process in the United States. Strategy implementation progressed strongly in 2024
The implementation of our strategy is progressing as planned and we are on the path of profitable growth. New product
innovations play a key role in our growth strategy. In 2024, we launched four new products: iCare ST500, iCare TONOVET
Pro, TONOVET Pet, and iCare MAIA. The number of customers and measurement volumes of the iCare ILLUME screening solution has increased significantly, and the scalability of the comprehensive solution has been validated. In software
solutions, we took a significant step forward in August with the acquisition of Thirona Retina, whose RetCAD software
improves eye disease screening using AI technology. This strengthens our ambition to develop innovative customer-centric
solutions and lays down the foundation for recurring revenue. We believe that software solutions will play a growing role in
eye health diagnostics and improving the efficiency of care pathways. We also invested in sales and marketing activities as
well as our visibility to strengthen the awareness of the iCare brand. People and culture are an important strategic cornerstone for us. We support competence development with the Talent Management framework, which models competence at
different organizational levels. The most important step forward in 2024 was the definition of the work role architecture and
role development paths. We launched a training program for managers to support the implementation of the strategy and
the development of managerial work. In addition, we started working with Aalto Executive Education in 2024, with 20 of our
experts participating in a program focused on personal learning, leadership and business development.
Determined work to promote sustainability reporting
We continued our preparation for sustainability reporting in accordance with the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD). We carried out a double materiality assessment, in which we assessed the impacts, financial risks and opportunities of our operations related to sustainability. The material topics are mainly aligned with our previous sustainability
program. Our reporting will be CSRD-aligned from 2025 onwards in 2026.
Strong foundation for profit growth
Revenio is a profitable growth company that is increasingly shifting from a product-focused offering to providing comprehensive eye health solutions. Although we expect our operating environment to remain challenging in 2025, our competitive
product and solution offering provides us a strong foundation to outperform the overall industry development. The macroeconomic and geopolitical outlook for 2025 is challenging and includes uncertainties that may impact our business environment. Monitoring these developments and reacting promptly are key elements of our strategy. Furthermore, uncertainty
regarding potential U.S. import tariffs is increasing, and we strive to prepare accordingly. I would like to extend my warmest
thanks to all of our global employees, customers, partners and shareholders for their support and cooperation during 2024.
We will continue together towards a future that will hopefully bring more stable and brighter times, both macroeconomically
and geopolitically.