Market demand remained at a good level in the mining sector during 2024, but the expected turnaround in demand in the construction sector did not materialise. Demand in the construction industry was weak throughout the year. Demand for exploration drilling also weakened during the year. Orders received totalled EUR 88.8 million (93.0), down by 4.4 per cent from 2023. The company’s net sales declined by 2.8 per cent to EUR 90.3 million (92.9). In a challenging market condition, we managed to grow both our Top Hammer and Geotechnical businesses. The decline in net sales was entirely driven by Down the Hole, which suffered from weak demand in the construction industry and the expiry of a major supply contract during 2024, which could not be fully replaced with new customers. Net sales in the Top Hammer business increased by 5.0 per cent. Growth was strong in the Australasia region thanks to several new customers. Net sales also increased in the EMEA region. Growth was driven in particular by underground mines. We also launched a new Robit® Extreme Carbide drill bit range, providing customers longer bit lifetime and improved penetration of drill bits. Down the Hole net sales decreased by 29.1 per cent, reflecting the expiry of a major supply contract, which could not be fully replaced with new customers and continued low demand in the business’s key well drilling and exploration drilling segments. During the year, we launched a new modular Robit® H series DTH hammer family, giving customers better drilling speeds and savings in energy consumption. The hammer family was well received by customers, which will allow sales to strengthen during 2025. In the Geotechnical business, net sales grew by 4.2 per cent. Growth was particularly strong in the Americas region, where the company made efforts to strengthen sales. Overall, market demand in the Geotechnical segment was at a low level. We managed to win the important projects that enable us to grow, even in a weaker market.
The company’s priority for 2024 was to increase profitability. We renewed the supply chain and manufacturing structure for Down the Hole products, continued to implement procurement savings projects and launched new, more competitive products. Thanks to these measures, we managed to significantly improve the company’s EBIT profitability to EUR 2.5 million (0.1). High freight costs, especially in the second and third quarters of the year, had an impact on the company’s profitability. In the last quarter of the year, we managed to bring costs back down to a lower level, and this was positively reflected in results for the last quarter. Net cash flow from the company’s operations was EUR 1.5 million (8.3). Improved profitability strengthened cash flow, but working capital was tied up during the year, which weakened cash flow. Inventories increased by EUR 4.2 million. Due to longer transport times, inventories were increased to secure deliveries to customers. The company’s product availability improved towards the end of the year, which was reflected in lower freight costs. Work to achieve sustainability goals continued Robit’s sustainability work focuses on four key themes: sustainable partnerships, reducing CO2 emissions in the value chain, a happy and healthy workplace and efficiency throughout the product lifecycle. We made good progress in many areas. We took a major step forward in reducing emissions intensity. In 2024, we were 39.6 per cent below the base year of 2020. We increased our use of zero-emission energy sources, which reduced the company’s overall emissions. Back on the growth track We have worked systematically to strengthen our competitiveness and renew our product range. In 2024, we managed to grow in two of our three businesses. The main objective the 2025 is to put Down the Hole business back on a growth path. We expect the market situation to remain unchanged until early 2025.