Increased profitability and strong free cash flow improvement
In 2024, we made good progress on our strategic focus areas of increasing the profitability of Learning and Media Finland and
deleveraging the Group's balance sheet. We also continued building on the long-term strengths of both businesses. As a
result, our operational EBIT excl. PPA increased and our free cash flow improved strongly – by EUR 40 million or 38% – from
the previous year.
Strong focus on accelerating digital development and leveraging AI
During the year, we have strengthened our digital offering in both Learning and Media. Examples of this in Learning include
successful launches of the new Sanoma platform in Italy, the eduVULCAN platform in Poland and the itslearning development
project with several German states. Across Media Finland, we have renewed our way of working to be even more customer
focused and to bring new digital propositions faster to the market. Examples of these include the launches of Ilta-Sanomat (IS)
Extra, a subscription-based digital tabloid, and +Kaikki, a bundle subscription including all Media Finland's digital consumer
products.
We continued to move forward with our AI initiatives and launched new services empowered by generative AI, with a strong
emphasis on its responsible use and human oversight. In Learning, we concluded multiple AI pilots across our markets,
including an AI driven survey tool and a text-to-speech AI implementation in tests. The development of AI tools and services
also progressed in journalism, driven by the Helsingin Sanomat-Ilta-Sanomat AI Lab delivering services like news summaries
and news bots. In audio, generative AI was used, for example, for weather reports and DJ slots.
Strengthening our competitive advantages in Learning
Our blended (printed and digital) learning content continued to play a key role in supporting teachers in their day-to-day work
and enhancing the students’ learning outcomes. During the year we introduced several new products in our markets. In the
Nordics, the adaptation of the Finnish Milli math series for the Swedish market is a good example of method sharing between
markets. In the Netherlands, Malmberg has positioned itself strongly in the language materials market and in Belgium, VAN IN
created a record number of new titles for secondary education.
In Learning, net sales decreased driven by the planned discontinuation of low-value distribution contracts in the Netherlands
and Belgium and the divestment of Stark. In the learning content business, growth in other learning content markets, in
particular Poland and the Netherlands, more than offset the decline of net sales in Spain that resulted from the lower
curriculum cycle.
In October 2023 we launched our efficiency and process improvement program Solar. It is now materially completed, with
more than 80% of the actions taken by the end of 2024 in line with our original plan. The first results of the program were
already visible in our 2024 free cash flow through a lower cost base and lower investments. Supported by our increased scale
and Program Solar, we are on track to reach Learning’s long-term profitability (operational EBIT margin excl. PPA) target of
23% by 2026.
In Media Finland, strong profitability improvement and continued growth in digital
In Media Finland, both digital subscription and digital advertising sales continued to develop positively. We have in total 1.4
million subscriptions and about 850,000 subscribers pay for digital content. The growth in digital subscriptions was driven by
the SVOD service Ruutu+ and the successful content focus on drama, supported with co-operation with Elisa, domestic sports
and music entertainment programs. The Ruutu+ subscription base reached its all-time-high. Also IS Extra, the new subscribed
media brand launched early 2024, providing more and deeper content to the free and high-reach Ilta-Sanomat offering, gained
a good subscriber base during its first year. Our digital advertising sales continued to grow despite the fact that in Finland, the overall demand for advertising weakened
slightly towards the end of the year. Driven by digital, we were successful in growing our share of the domestic advertising
market driven by our in-depth knowledge of the local audiences.
We also introduced new operating models in several parts of Media Finland, targeting to sharpen even further the focus on the
customer and to accelerate digital growth. While these measures are expected to continue delivering results in the years to
come, they also positively contributed to the improvement in operational efficiency and Media Finland's increased profitability.
Solid balance sheet for future growth
The deleveraging of our balance sheet took a major step forward during the year. Our net debt and leverage improved yearon-year and Net debt / Adjusted EBITDA was well within the long-term target of < 3.0. We also refinanced a key part of our
external loan portfolio by issuing a EUR 150 million 3-year Social Bond in September.
Learning and media have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people every day
We have a unique sustainability profile as learning and media have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people every
day. In Learning, we enable teachers to excel at developing the talents of every child with our inclusive learning solutions.
During the year, we updated our inclusive learning strategy to make the importance of accessibility of our learning content and
digital solutions even more visible and to anchor our sustainability work more clearly into the UN Sustainable Development
Goals. In media, our mission is to provide independent Finnish journalism and engaging local entertainment for current and
future generations. To promote independent journalism and freedom of expression, we for example made the journalistic and
ethical guidelines of our news media more transparent to the audience.
To support the purpose of our businesses, we have set ambitious targets for sustainability aspects in which we have the
biggest impact and we performed well against these targets in 2024. The Employee Experience Index (EEI) was relatively
stable at 7.4 (2023: 7.5), being close to our long-term target level of 7.5. We made good progress in enhancing the data
security and privacy across our operations, with specific focus on ethical and secure use of AI with human oversight. Our
greenhouse gas emissions decreased across the value chain. In our own operations (Scope 1 and 2), we have already
reached the SBTi emission reduction targets set for 2030, and in the coming years, our focus will be mainly in further reducing
the value chain (Scope 3) emissions, representing ≈95% of Sanoma’s total GHG emissions. Sustainability targets related to
data, privacy & AI, employee engagement and climate are also linked to the executive management’s short-term incentives
(read more in the Remuneration Report). Our full sustainability performance is included in the Sustainability Statement in the
Report of the Board of Directors.
We continue with our ambitious strategy for sustainable long-term growth
Our focus remains on increasing our profitability and free cash flow, and our Outlook for 2025 indicates relatively stable
operational EBIT excl. PPA with lower net sales compared to 2024. From 2026 onwards, the upcoming curriculum renewals in
our major learning markets, particularly Poland and Spain, are expected to accelerate organic growth. In Media Finland, we
are continuing, and accelerating, our successful digital transformation. We aim to also expand through value-creating M&A in
K12 learning services, while being committed to meeting our leverage and equity ratio targets and paying an increasing
dividend, equal to 40–60% of our annual free cash flow.
I would like to extend my warmest thanks to all Sanoma employees for their excellent work in delivering these good results
and for their strong commitment and passion in supporting our customers. I also would like to thank our customers, suppliers,
shareholders and all other stakeholders for their continued support. I look forward to working together to continue to grow our
business, creating value for all our stakeholders in 2025 and beyond.

