2024 was another challenging year from a market perspective, both for Siili and the entire IT service sector. During the year, we focused on crystallising our strategy and creating a foundation for stronger competitiveness and profitability.
The market situation affected both Siili's revenue and the rate of growth both domestically and internationally. Full‑year revenue amounted to approximately EUR 112 million, representing a decline of 9% year on year. The share of international operations in the Group’s revenue continued to increase and rose from the previous year’s level of 27% to 29% in 2024.
The slowdown in growth also weighed on profitability. Adjusted EBITA for the year was EUR 5.4 million, which corresponds to about 5% of revenue. This year, we aim to improve Siili's profitability by focusing on operational efficiency and growth with focus on the Data and AI business.
Despite the challenges of the operating environment, last year was, however, successful for Siili in many ways. During the first half of the year, we focused on designing our new strategy and streamlining the organisation. We also launched a three-level training programme in artificial intelligence for our consultants and continued to strengthen the data and AI expertise of the Siili team through both training and recruitment throughout the year.
Our new strategy has been well received
In the new strategy published in August, we placed data and artificial intelligence at the core of the strategy. Our objective is to be a pioneer in the AI transition as a developer of generative AI solutions and as an AI partner that reinforces its customers’ competitiveness. We have now three strategic priorities that strengthen our position as a leader in leveraging AI:
–
Significant growth in Data and AI business
–
Pioneer in AI-powered digital development
–
Community of top talent
Our updated strategy and our promise “Impact driven, AI powered” have been well received in the markets. During the year, we were selected as a partner for several AI and data projects in line with our strategy. Towards the end of the year, we had many successful openings consistent with the strategy in projects dealing with, for example, AI strategies, training, and implementation. We will continue to focus on expanding our business with strategic customers and building long-standing partnerships.
We focus on improving our profitability
We continue to improve our operational efficiency. We will focus in particular on capacity and utilization management, cost efficiency, offer development and pricing optimization. Improving profitability is progressing according to plan in stages. We have made a concrete action plan to improve our efficiency and profitability and we will implement it with determination and monitor its progress.
Last year, we also started to develop our operating models towards more data-driven decision-making and better forecasting. In addition, we are strongly investing in the implementation of a new management model that increases efficiency, recruitments that support the strategy and optimization of subcontracting. We strive to seek profitable growth in growth areas in line with the strategy, while firmly protecting profitability in more challenging market segments.
We are strengthening our community of top talent
At the beginning of November, we strengthened the data and AI expertise of the management team when Maria Niiniharju took up the position as the leader of Siili’s Private Business and became a new member of Siili’s management team. In accordance with our strategy, we also expanded our competence through recruitment of data and AI experts, who we have now 43% more compared to previous year. Towards the end of the year, we strengthened our integration expertise by signing an agreement to purchase a majority stake in Integrations Group Oy. With Integrations Group, we will be a stronger partner for our customers in various demanding AI and data integration projects.
We aim to be the best community for digital development professionals, and we continued to develop our culture and leadership further last year. Our efforts to develop Siili's community were recognized in autumn when Siili achieved 10th place in the Young Professional Attraction Index survey by Academic Work.
In 2025, we will celebrate Siili’s 20th anniversary. With two decades of innovation and growth under our belt, this is a good time to continue Siili’s journey by focusing on the implementation of the strategy and the improvement of profitability during the year. Although we cannot see immediate signs of an improvement in market conditions, our successes in 2024 have proven the performance of our strategy. I want to extend my thanks to the entire Siili team and our customers for the past year. I am looking forward to the opportunity to build new and innovative solutions at the cutting edge of the AI transition.