Mixed market environment continued
Sitowise’s market environment in 2024 remained mixed, presenting
both challenges and growth opportunities
. At the beginning of the
year, we – along with the other market participants – anticipated a
broader recovery in the construction market in the second half of
2024 and an overall improvement in the economic situation
. However,
these expectations proved to be overly optimistic
. The delay in the
construction market recovery was particularly evident in our Buildings
and Sweden business areas, which experienced low volumes and
workloads especially in structural engineering, which is closely linked
to new construction, throughout the year
. The general economic
downturn and budget pressures in the public sector continued to
impact a large part of our business, resulting in budget constraints for
both private and public sector customers, prioritization of investments,
and intense price competition
. At the same time, there were areas
of strong growth in the market
. The increasing demand for services
related to the green transition, security and digitalization of the
built environment provided growth opportunities, especially in the
Infrastructure and Digital Solutions business areas
. Demand for our
digital products remained strong throughout the year
.
Infra and Digital Solution delivered
strong performance
The year turned out to be successful in our Infra and Digital Solutions
businesses which delivered above target level profitability despite
some market headwinds
. The Infra business was particularly
successful in several important tenders, including various tram and rail
projects such as the program alliance for Helsinki's light rail projects
.
In the Digital Solutions business, key successes included the growth
of the digital product business (SaaS) to approximately one-third of
the business area's net sales, as well as increasing market share and
improving profitability in a generally weak Finnish IT market
.
Challenges in the Buildings and
Sweden business areas
The year was challenging for the Buildings and Sweden business
areas
. After the summer, we launched a separate "Building for the
Future" program to improve profitability especially in these areas
. As
part of this program, we adjusted operations and personnel numbers
to better match the prevailing market situation and order book
. The
structural reforms implemented in these businesses were difficult but
necessary to create a more solid foundation for future success when
the market finally picks up
. Towards the end of the year, we already
saw some positive developments: the Buildings business experienced
a stronger last quarter in construction management and renovation
services, and in Sweden, sales improved in building services
engineering and infrastructure design
.
Financially a tough year
At the Group level, we didn’t achieve the financial guidance set for
2024
. Sitowise's net sales decreased after several years of growth,
and due to the continued challenging market situation and the issues
encountered in our business, net sales were 8
.5 percent lower than the
previous year, totaling 192
.9 million euros
. Our adjusted EBITA margin
was 5
.0 percent, clearly below our expectations at the beginning of
the year
. Despite the weak profitability and the acquisitions made, our
cash flow from operational activities remained stable at 21
.5 million
.
Measures taken to support long-term growth
Throughout the year, we focused on building an active sales
culture and developing project management skills throughout the
organization
. Adopting new mindsets and working methods requires
the commitment of all our experts, and I am pleased with how well
they are embracing the ongoing change
. The new CRM and ERP
systems introduced in Finland at the end of 2023 have been important
enablers in this transformation, although there is still room for
improvement in leveraging their benefits 
.
We also leveraged AI-based solutions to enhance our daily
work
. The Sitowise AI Center of Excellence, a network of our own AI
experts, completed 16 AI Proof of Concept projects and introduced
two proprietary AI tools, Saga AI and the bidding tool BidBox, to our
employees
. As a result, our company now has a broader and more
active user base for AI
.
Growth in new client segments and product business
To ensure our future competitiveness, we expanded our service
offering and client base in areas with opportunities for profitable
growth and strong links to sustainable business and society
. In Finland,
we seek growth particularly in sustainability services, energy, industry,
security and product business
. Overall in 2024, we already grew
at double-digit rate in these areas
. To support this growth, we also
completed three carefully selected acquisitions
. At the end of the year,
we decided to diversify our service offerings in Sweden to grow our
business and increase its resilience
. We are seeking growth particularly
in infrastructure, project management, and sustainability
.
We strengthened our position as a provider of smart, sustainable
digital products based on geospatial data
. During the year, we
introduced three new products to the market: Planect, a digital
tool for assessing climate impacts in zoning projects; a Land Mass
Management solution for improved material efficiency and emission
reduction; and an Energy Efficiency Mapping solution that compiles
energy-related information of buildings from different sources into an
updated situational picture
. All three products were developed in close
collaboration with clients
.
The product business remains a high priority for us
. In December,
we announced our aim to double our Digital Solutions business in
Finland and Sweden to a total of approximately 70 million euros by
2030, with about half of this coming from the product business
. We
also aim to internationalize the product business in the medium-term
.
In 2024, we already started exploring internationalization opportunities
for the Smartlas product, which offers intelligent map layers, especially
for the forest industry
.
Innovativeness, sustainability and
efficiency as cornerstones
I firmly believe that our work can renew our industry and make our
society more sustainable, and our vision of Redefining Smartness
in Cities encapsulates our goal
. At the core of our strategy are three
pillars: The Most Innovative, The Most Sustainable, and The Most
Efficient
. Through our expertise we can create smart solutions and
services to address our clients' challenges and transform our industry
.
We aim to lead the way to a sustainable future by focusing on client
work, future business opportunities, and our own operations
. We will
continue to engage in discussions with our stakeholders and the wider
community about the demands of a more sustainable future, as we
have done through our Smart City Talks events
. We will optimize our
operations and processes to enable our experts to focus on client work
and deliver the best results for our clients
.
Looking ahead
The construction market is generally expected to improve in the
second half of 2025, but the likelihood of a new construction recovery
moving to 2026 has increased substantially
. The market environment
in the Infra and Digital Solutions business areas is expected to remain
variable, offering also several opportunities for profitable growth
.
Our clear priority in 2025 is to improve our profitability
. I expect the
operational development implemented throughout the organization
and the structural reforms carried out in Sweden and the Buildings
business to have a positive impact on Sitowise in the future
. We are
focusing on growth and expanding our customer base in our selected
growth segments, as well as improving our operational efficiency
. Our
future-oriented strategy drives us forward, and I am confident that we
can deliver attractive long-term shareholder value
.
I warmly thank Sitowise's employees for their persistence amidst
the challenging market environment and for achieving many important
goals last year
. I also thank all our customers, shareholders, and other
partners for their trust and good cooperation
.