 Foundation laid for transition to new strategy phase – Company enters
international growth phase
The past year marks a historic milestone in Solar Foods' journey from vision to reality. With 2024, we
successfully completed our first strategic period (2018–2024) and achieved its three main objectives.
We delivered a new crop to humanity, Solein, which was approved as a novel food. We proved Solein's
excellent usability in various food categories up to consumer product launches. In addition, the Factory
01 production facility demonstrated the scalability of our hydrogen fermentation technology.
In September, we obtained self-affirmed GRAS (Generally recognized as safe) status for Solein in the
United States and registered our Factory 01 with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This
enabled the launch of Solein in the United States in November. The first taste of the future of food was
experienced in collaboration with award-winning chef Greg Baxtrom at his prestigious Olmsted
restaurant in New York. Entering the U.S. market is a major milestone for Solein as it’s one of the
largest protein-consuming markets in the world.
Consumers in Singapore were able to sample products containing Solein during the year. Fazer
introduced the Solein-containing Taste the Future chocolate bar, and the Japanese Ajinomoto launched
two test-marketing products in the autumn: Traditional Flowering Mooncakes and Ice Cream
Sandwiches. The products were well received and became available again in December.
4 (21)
During the year, we also made significant progress in bioprocess productivity at our pilot plant. We plan
to replicate these productivity improvements also at Factory 01. This will have an impact on the
production cost of Solein.
Entering the commercial growth phase
Having achieved the objectives of our first strategy period, we look forward to the next phase, the
details of which we announced at our Capital Markets Day in December. This new strategic phase will
guide us until 2030 and will focus on commercializing Solein in the U.S. and scaling up production at
both the existing Factory 01 and the upcoming Factory 02, which is currently in the pre-engineering
stage.
Our commercialization strategy in the United States focuses on the Health & Performance Nutrition
segment, which is one of the world's most important markets for high-protein products. In this segment,
we are focusing on ready-to-mix powders, ready-to-drink beverages and protein bars. We are also
moving from offering powder prototypes to a conceptual sales model where we will introduce finished
products containing Solein. Over the winter, we will focus on customer work in the United States,
especially with companies in the Health & Performance Nutrition sector. We will also be attending
industry events.
To meet demand, we plan to expand the design capacity of Factory 01 from 160 tons to 230 tons in
2026. In connection with the strategy update, we also published a phased investment plan for Factory
02. This industrial-scale production facility will be the cornerstone of our international growth strategy.
The pre-engineering phase for Factory 02 started in February 2025.
In January, we announced that Solar Foods had appointed Rami Jokela as its new CEO, effective 1
st
April 2025, to lead the company's international growth phase. This change in the company's leadership
is a strategically important part of the Solar Foods story as the company moves from groundbreaking
technological development to the implementation of its global business strategy.
In February, we took an important step towards the launch of Solein in Europe by responding to
inquiries from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for a scientific opinion on the safety of
Solein. We have previously communicated that we expect to obtain EU novel food authorisation during
2026. In February, Italian food innovator KelpEat presented a Solein-containing protein snack at the
Pitti Taste food event in Florence, and the company plans to bring the product to the US consumer
market.
Our mission is ambitious: bring Solein to market globally, revolutionise sustainable food production and
continue to deliver value to our shareholders, stakeholders and the planet, and we are now ready to
enter the next phase on this journey. The dedication of our team and our successful listing on the
Nasdaq First North Growth Market Finland have created a solid foundation for this global growth
journey. 