A critical year: Profitability improved; financing was secured
The year 2024 was a critical year for the company's profitability and refinancing. The profitability
turnaround that lasted the entire year generated a comparable operating result of EUR 0.7 million (-4.6),
which was EUR 5.3 million better than in the comparison period and the first positive operating result in two
years. Thanks to improved profitability, the company successfully renegotiated the repayment terms and
maturity of its EUR 23 million bond.
The comparable revenue for the financial year was EUR 50.9 million (54.2), which decreased by 6.1 percent
from the comparison period. Revenue decreased in both segments. The tougher-than-expected market
situation led to a profit warning and a lowering of the profit guidance for the financial year's comparable
revenue in October 2024.
The comparable revenue of the Retail & Commerce segment was EUR 38.6 million (40.5) for the financial
year. The decline in revenue was due to weak customer demand and delays in decision-making on several
significant new customer projects. The efficiency measures implemented in the second and third quarters
drove the company’s profit improvement. The segment's profitability improved significantly, and the
comparable operating result for the financial year was EUR 2.5 million (0.4).
The Utilities segment’s revenue decreased during the financial year and amounted to EUR 12.2 million
(13.7). Revenue development was disappointing and affected by delays in the start of customer projects in
the software business and weak customer demand in the consulting business. The comparable operating
result for the financial year was EUR -1.8 million (-5.0). The significant profit improvement resulted from
the recovery in the software business and the efficiency and cost-saving measures implemented at the end
of the previous financial year. Furthermore, the consistent work in developing the quality of Utilities
software products was reflected in improved customer satisfaction during the financial year.
At the end of the financial year, the company sold its business based on Danish healthcare software
solutions. The net debt-free purchase price was EUR 4.0 million. In 2024, the revenue of the divested
business amounted to EUR 2.0 million. The transaction was a logical continuum of the company’s focus on
selected solutions and expert services in the energy sector, retail industry, and ecommerce. In addition,
the transaction will enable the company to reduce its indebtedness and financing costs.