The year 2024 showed signs of improvement in the
consultancy and planning sector, yet a significant
market turnaround is still awaited. Our order backlog
improved towards the end of the year and the billing
rate remained at a good level. Profitability was
impacted especially towards the end of the year by
one-off costs and investments for future growth.
Solwers’ core business continued to perform well
considering the market challenges. The revenue
grew by nearly 19 per cent and exceeded EUR 78
million. We are happy to see the operative business
in Finland picking up with the investment activities
slowly starting to kick off. We are particularly happy
to see improvement in the performance of such
subsidiaries that have had challenges in previous
years.
Overall, the business climate is still more favourable
in Sweden and for the most part, our subsidiaries in
Sweden have a positive impact on business.
The preparations for being listed on the main list of
Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange have advanced well
in 2024. The Board of Directors carefully evaluates
the transfer schedule and prevailing market,
ensuring that the decision aligns with the long-term
strategic goals of the Company and the best interests of the shareholders.
Profitability decreased
The last quarter of the year was impacted by
continued intense price competition and the low
number of billable hours in December.
The group level governance costs were up by EUR
1.2 million from the previous year. Most of this is
tied to development projects now close to
completion. We believe these investments add
value to the business and are necessary as we
continue the growth journey.
Other costs include write-downs of doubtful
receivables and repayment of government
subsidies related to reduction of employer social
costs for research and development (FOU) of one
subsidiary. These items combined have EUR 1.1
million negative impact on the IFRS EBIT.
Additionally, a major client suspending the
purchase of consultancy services has taken its toll
on the operations at three of our Swedish
subsidiaries. The estimated impact is around EUR
0.5 million.
Acquisitions and plans for geographical expansion
Execution of the acquisition-based growth strategy
has continued. During 2024, six new operational
companies joined Solwers: WiseGate Consulting,
DEMAB, Relitor and Spectra Consult in Sweden,
Finexplo and Siren Architects in Finland. All
companies support our existing operations and
expand the client base. In addition, Solwers
partnered with One Planet Oy (prev. Kari & Pantsar
Co.) of which Solwers own one third of the
company shares. As a new initiative, we are now mapping potential
acquisition targets also in Poland that is expecting
to have significant investments in e.g.
infrastructure construction and the renewal of the
energy industry. All three markets, Finland, Sweden
and Poland, are on the radar for future acquisitions.
We continue to manage business risk by operating
in multiple locations and countries.
Order backlog developing positively
Solwers companies had over 5,500 ongoing
projects in 2024, 70 per cent of which are below
EUR 10,000 of sales value. Over 60 per cent of the
sales is running price work.
Some of the biggest clients included Trafikverket -
Swedish Transport Administration, Väylävirasto -
Finnish Transport Infrastructure Agency,
Työyhteenliittymä Laakson LATU, HUS Kiinteistöt
and KPO-Kiinteistöt. The price competition has
remained tough, with more companies showing
interest towards small projects. Our strengths
include strong local presence in 28 locations
across Sweden and Finland and well-established
network of clients.
As in the previous years, around half of the revenue
came from the public sector where infra projects
represent around half. In 2024 our subsidiary
Finnmap Infra continued working with HaukipudasLaurila railway project, estimated to last until the
end of 2025. The company is also involved in the
next phase of Helsinki Central Railway Station
renovation and GeoUnion is involved in Vantaa tramway project. In addition, our subsidiaries work
with multiple hospital projects such as Laakso Joint
Hospital (LYS), Oulu University Hospital (OYS) and
Malmi hospital along with many ongoing school
renovation planning projects. In Sweden, our
subsidiary Wisegate Consulting is working as an
initial technical consultant in VA SYD Maxima
sustainable wastewater treatment project through
an 8-year framework agreement.
In 2024 our Swedish subsidiary ELE Engineering was
included in Fingrid’s framework agreement as a
subcontractor of our Finnish subsidiary Finnmap
Infra. In total we had around 250 framework
agreements.
Increasing subsidiary collaboration
Solwers’ concept of light integration is among the
decisive factors for companies to join the group. We
enable subsidiaries to maintain independence and
agility while being part of a bigger group of experts
with diverse competences. We are now more than
700 experts in two countries.
To promote innovation and business collaboration,
Solwers organizes annual strategy meetings for
subsidiary management and key personnel. We have
established working groups such as the industrial
group in Sweden and ESG group to leverage
business synergies among the subsidiaries. We have
also increased country-based subsidiary
collaboration both in Sweden and Finland. For
supporting competence development, Solwers
initiated 360 leadership evaluations in selected
subsidiaries.
In 2024, we introduced the performance share plan
for key employees to align interests and ensure the
retention of top talent. Drivers for growth
We continue to implement the acquisition-based
growth strategy in at least three countries but also
focus heavily on profitability and organic growth.
Some adjustment measures such as layoffs and
redundancies can still be initiated in a few
subsidiaries. The positive order backlog and
increasing requests for quotations from
construction companies and the energy sector are
signs of a market turnaround. We anticipate that
the impact of new investments will start being seen
in the second half of 2025 at the latest.
Country-based collaboration between the
subsidiaries is strengthened with common sales
and marketing activities. Hereby we ensure that,
once the turnaround hits, we are already on the go.