Year 2024
was a year of transformation
Year 2024 was transformative for Spinnova. At the
beginning of the year, we focused intensively on
deepening our understanding of the market and our
customers and updating our strategy in line with this.
We met many key players in the market, and it was
clear that the textile industry needs more sustainable
materials and alternatives to natural fibres. Our mission
is to change the raw material base of the textile
industry. We decided that we will do this by helping the
industry build production lines that take sustainably
produced pulp and turn it into a natural cotton-like
fibre. This solves existing fibre supply chain challenges,
improves sustainability metrics of final products, and
supports circular fibre supply chains.
The Capital Markets Day we held in March was a very
important day for us, as we announced our updated
strategy and targets. Our renewed strategy was
centred on the best path to creating shareholder
value by focusing on a capital-light model where we
generate income from the value our fibre production
technology adds to our customers. These revenues are
expected to come from the planning and engineering
of facilities, delivery of proprietary equipment, and
licenses and service agreements to enable operations.
Although our focus is no longer on fibre production and
sales, we continue to be active in co-developing our
fibre product with brands and textile suppliers, which
demonstrates and grows the addressable market for
the SPINNOVA® fibre.
During the first half of the year, we completed a
difficult, but important, restructuring programme to
ensure we can effectively implement our strategy and
to ensure our cost base is in line with our strategic
targets. I want to thank everyone for their leadership,
collaboration, and resilience in making this happen. We
now have a stronger and clearer organisation in place.
Throughout 2024, we reached several significant
milestones. We signed a Letter of Intent in March
with our long-term partner, Suzano. This agreement
outlined at that time Suzano’s plans to invest in
Spinnova’s technology. Technology development
of fibre spinning has progressed well in terms of
increasing the output of the fibre drying units, and 
the main sub-processes have already been
validated separately. However, validating process
efficiency metrics at targeted capital and
operating expenditure levels at the Woodspin
factory for the entire process from pulp to
fibre was not met during 2024, and therefore,
the pre-engineering phase was delayed from
the planned timetable at the end of 2024 and
alternative plans were being pursued together
with Suzano for the fastest way to validate
end-to-end process efficiency metrics.
28 February 2025, Spinnova was informed by
Suzano, that Suzano will not invest into the
next steps of the collaboration with Spinnova.
As a result of this decision from Suzano, we
currently do not expect Suzano to make a
factory investment in the near future. Suzano
commented that this business decision is based
on Suzano’s newly defined priorities and capital
allocation strategy and is not related to Suzano’s
confidence in the our technology that prompted
the initial investment, and Suzano will continue
to be a shareholder in Spinnova.
Together, we have agreed to commence a
strategic review of out joint venture Woodspin,
which is expected to be completed within
the coming months. We continue to see
significant interest from other parties in
its fibre and technology. Therefore, the
review will also assess the terms for the
termination of the exclusivity rights that are
part of the joint venture agreement. We will
continue to implement our own technology
roadmap, including our own MFC concept, as
communicated previously.
Concurrently with the review of Woodspin,
we will begin an assessment of our strategy
including all our joint ventures and we will plan
future actions. We will also review our strategic
targets and the financial guidance for 2025. We
expect that the strategic assessment will be
completed within the next few months and we
will update the market when appropriate.
It is important to note that based on brand and
supply chain feedback, we have demonstrated
that we can make good fibre, and our focus
is now on ensuring the efficiency and costcompetitiveness of the fibre production end-to
end.
We formed a partnership with global technology
supplier Valmet, which will supply the main
equipment for future factories. This collaboration
with Valmet accelerates our development,
pairs us with an established industrial partner
experienced in delivering similar projects and
expands our technology sales to a pool of new
customers. Another key achievement was the
Letter of intent signed in July with Ecco, our
joint venture partner, which further solidifies
our commitment to scaling leather-based fibre
production at Respin. Both parties aim to decide
on scaling and commercialisation by the end of
Q1 2025.
We continue to ensure our fibre product is
visible in the end consumer market, and a
very exciting development this year was the
commercial launch of high-volume products
featuring SPINNOVA® fibre. Bestseller, for
example, launched t-shirts under their JACK
& JONES brand in April, marking the first
commercial product made with SPINNOVA®
fibre produced at the Woodspin joint venture
factory. In addition, JACK & JONES, Vero Moda,
and Rukka produced Summer Olympics 2024
collections for Danish and Finnish athletes,
including SPINNOVA® fibre.
Our collaborations extend beyond product
launches to commitments to future fibre
production volumes. We announced a
collaboration with PUMA to develop products
from SPINNOVA® fibre for future collections,
particularly in products of PUMA’s Sportstyle
category. We also teamed up with ASK
Scandinavia, a premium brand based in
Helsinki, to create a limited-edition work tote
bag inspired by Nordic design. Through these
partnerships, we continue to make strides in
raising consumers as well as brands awareness
about sustainable fashion.
In recognition of our groundbreaking innovation,
Business Finland granted Spinnova an R&D loan
of up to EUR 12.7 million to support our ongoing
research and development initiatives.
Financially, 2024 turned out as expected and in
line with our financial guidance. Our revenues
totalled EUR 0.76 million, and our operating
result was EUR –18.3 million. We continued to
invest in R&D, our own pilot, as well as in our
joint ventures, Woodspin and Respin. Our net
cash position remained strong, totalling EUR
40.9 million by year-end. Our ongoing cost
savings programme, including personnel and
external spending adjustments, has progressed
according to plan, and the majority of the
expected EUR 1.6 million annual run-rate savings
have already been achieved.
I want to thank all our stakeholders for their
support and trust. 2024 has been a year of hard
work and many changes, but we are ready for
the future and remain strongly committed to
our strategic goals announced at our Capital
Markets Day 2024. As we progress, we look
forward to achieving even more significant
milestones together. 