2024 was a year of two distinct halves. Our operations developed extremely well in many subareas, but the difficult
market slowed down the implementation of our strategy
and hindered substantial improvements in our earnings
performance. However, we managed to increase our
revenue and operative operating profit, and to maintain a
strong order backlog. The controllability of our operations
and projects was solid – this can be seen in, for example,
customer satisfaction, personnel work motivation and the
predictability of business operations, as we achieved our
project margins in line with plans in different project types.
Our revised strategy – “sustainably profitable” –
came into force at the beginning of the year. Our strategic
objective is to continuously optimise our portfolio for
market conditions and risk management in order to reach
our long-term financial objectives. We intend to pursue
profitable growth by increasing the share accounted for by
housing construction and especially by housing and business construction based on in-house project development
in a controlled manner. In 2024, we did not make headway
towards our objective due to the lack of consumer and
investor demand; instead, we had to safeguard our order
backlog mainly with different types of competitive contracts.
Favourable business development
Even in the challenging business environment, we were
able to systematically forge ahead in 2024 with our strong
growth in the construction of business premises and infrastructure, especially in collaborative contracting. Our revenue increased by about 22 per cent year-on-year, totalling
EUR 745.8 million. Our operative operating profit also improved, rising to EUR 10.3 million. Our earnings development
was driven by revenue growth and strong performance in
project management across the organisation.
Our order backlog remained robust and was EUR
1,052.8 million at the end of the year. Thanks to the
structure of our order backlog, our operations are on a
low-risk and stable footing. In addition, we have proactively continued to develop our extensive project development portfolio. During the review year, we stepped up the
volume of the project portfolio by around 200,000 m2
. Our
project development portfolio amounts to a total of over
870,000 m2
 and includes plenty of projects that are ready
to be started up.
Finland’s largest builder of business
premises
During the year, we started up, continued to work on and
completed many business construction projects. We
claimed the position of Finland’s largest builder of business
premises as measured in terms of revenue.
 We have strong expertise in hospital construction
and are able to transfer expertise and experience from
one project to another. Our largest hospital project is the
Laakso Joint Hospital. These projects, both completed and in progress, also include a new ward building at Jorvi
Hospital in Espoo, the Bridge Hospital in Helsinki, Hospital
Nova in Jyväskylä, and TAYS projects in Tampere. We have
signed a contract valued at EUR 800 million for the Laakso
Joint Hospital project. It is being recognised in SRV’s order
backlog in stages between 2022 and 2030. In 2024, the
second phase of the infrastructure work at the Laakso
Joint Hospital, a forensic psychiatry hospital building to
be constructed in the Ohkola district of Mäntsälä, and the
southern section of the main building of the Joint Hospital
were recognised in SRV’s order backlog from this project.
The headquarters of cybersecurity company
WithSecure – completed in July in the Wood City quarter, which we developed in Jätkäsaari, Helsinki – is an
excellent example of SRV’s solid expertise in developing,
designing and constructing lifecycle-wise buildings and
supporting the development of cities towards their carbon-neutrality targets. WithSecure’s headquarters has a
large carbon handprint and is one of the first projects in
Finland to comply with the new EU taxonomy. It is the first
office building in Finland to be carbon-neutral for 50 years.
With the completion of this building, we also wrapped
up the construction of the Wood City quarter with flying
colours. This flagship of Finnish wood construction has
attracted international interest.
In September, we held the topping-out party of the
26-storey Horisontti, Finland’s first office skyscraper,
which was implemented by SRV and real estate investment company Niam. This office tower, carried out by
SRV as a development project in the Kalasatama district
of Helsinki, will provide modern and sustainable premises
for about 1,000 employees. It is the fifth of the eight tower
buildings to be built in Kalasatama and will be completed
in spring 2025. SRV will move its own offices in the Helsinki
metropolitan area to Horisontti at that time. Infrastructure is growing
SRV’s infrastructure construction is part of our business
construction operations. In both collaborative projects and
competitive contracting, it works either independently as
the main contractor or with other SRV units and partners.
The trend in infrastructure construction has been excellent
in recent years, with higher profitability and business on a
growth track.
The Laakso Joint Hospital is one of Finland’s
largest hospital projects. It is also SRV’s largest ongoing
infrastructure project and the largest underground
construction site in Finland. Our strengthened infrastructure expertise enables us to implement demanding
infrastructure projects – we are one of the major players in
Finland in the excavation and construction of underground
spaces in rock. We were recognised for our occupational
safety efforts in May, when the underground works carried
out by SRV Infra in the Laakso Joint Hospital project
were awarded the title of best site of 2023 in the Uusimaa
Occupational Safety Competition.
Housing construction is poised for growth
Our successes in housing projects during the year include
the completion in September of a housing portfolio to a
housing fund managed by eQ: As Oy Hippoksenkatu 44,
an apartment building with 52 units in Kissanmaa, Tampere, and Asunto Oy Espoon Anna Sahlsténinkatu 15, with
86 units in Perkkaa, Espoo. These development projects
are excellent examples of our improved performance
in housing construction: the NPS, measuring customer
satisfaction, at the handover phase was a perfect 100 at
both sites, and they were zero-error handovers. In terms
of energy efficiency, both buildings are in class A, and they
use electricity produced by solar panels.
In February 2025, we decided to build our first developer-contracted residential project after a break of over
two years: Asunto Oy Espoon Niittykummun Neuvokas in
Espoo. The reservation rate for its 53 lifecycle-wise units
has developed well. The startup of a new owner-occupied
apartment building is a step towards our strategic objective of stepping up our residential construction. In December, we also signed a deal for a housing company that owns
a plot zoned for residential construction in Niittykumpu,
Espoo. Market-financed residential units with a total floor
area of about 4,600 square metres can be built on this plot.
Even in the challenging housing market, we have constantly
enhanced our project development portfolio proactively.
When the market picks up, we are prepared to rapidly start
up housing projects both in the Helsinki metropolitan area
and in other growth centres.
Excellent performance in lifecycle wisdom
and customer satisfaction
Lifecycle-wise construction is at the heart of our strategy.
For us, this comprises three perspectives: construction
that is sustainable in terms of the environment, people and
economic value. The most concrete example of our advanced lifecycle expertise during the review year is provided
by our winning proposals for three out of four lifecycle projects in a competitive tender in the Greater Helsinki area.
One of the highlights of the year was that we started
up a research project in June to calculate our nature
footprint in association with the University of Jyväskylä.
Thanks to this project, SRV is now the first Finnish
construction company that calculates its nature footprint.
Nature footprint calculation is the next step following
SRV’s lifecycle-wise sites, thanks to which the company
has reduced emissions (scope 1 and 2 emission intensity)
from its site operations by around 87 per cent since 2021. The factors that have contributed the most to reducing
emissions are enhancing energy efficiency, changing over
to electricity and heat produced from renewable and emission-free energy sources, increasing the number of electric
work machines, and using biofuels to power the other work
machines. I’m also very pleased that our indirect emissions
(scope 3 emission intensity) have declined by 64 per cent
compared with 2023. We’ve achieved emissions reductions
by switching over to low-emission alternatives in concrete
and steel, and by stepping up the use of wood in construction. As we were not able to eliminate all of our emissions,
in 2024 we planted almost 17,000 trees which will absorb
10,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
Our accident frequency has systematically evolved
in the right direction in recent years, although the figure
rose slightly in 2024. Our lost time injury frequency (LTIF)
for 2024 was 11.0 compared to 10.0 in 2023. We have taken
steps to get on our longer-term development track this
year. We invest particularly in proactive safety measures,
including assessments of various work-related risks and
the risks associated with last-minute tasks. These assessments are utilised to effectively identify and mitigate
work-related hazards.
Customer work that produces value is strongly evident in our strategy and operations. I’m extremely pleased
with our excellent performance in customer satisfaction.
Our NPS (B2B), which measures customer satisfaction,
stood at 78 at the end of the year, and I consider this to be
an exceptional achievement. We have succeeded in our
goal of integrating our customer promise, “By listening, we
build wisely”, as a guideline for everything we do. I would
like to thank our motivated and skilled personnel for this
outstanding level of customer satisfaction and for retaining their motivation throughout these very difficult times.
Driven by interesting projects and our well-developed business, the net promoter score for our employees (eNPS) hit
an all-time high in August: 30.
Balance sheet in good shape and Russian
assets sold
In a challenging market situation, it is particularly important that our balance sheet is strong and our financing
is in good shape. The total number of unsold completed
residential units remained low throughout the review year,
and the company has not committed a significant amount
of its own capital into unsold housing. We have not therefore attempted to sell our homes at huge discounts during
this period of very low demand. With respect to financing,
in April we agreed with our main financier banks to exercise the one-year extension option of our current EUR 40
million committed revolving credit facility, which is tied to
sustainability targets. In accordance with the exercised
extension option, the revolving credit facility is valid until
April 2026.
With a transaction carried out in December, we finally
concluded our divestment of Russian business operations.
Our proactive efforts to exit Russia began in 2022. After
the sale of our last asset in Russia – a 50 per cent stake in
the Pearl Plaza shopping centre in St. Petersburg – to CP
Invest Limited, SRV no longer has any assets or business in
Russia.
Opportunities in the market for residential
investors
The company is in a strong position and we are prepared to
pursue profitable growth. However, the delayed market upswing continues to put the brakes on the strategic restructuring of our project portfolio and thereby on significant
improvements in profitability. In 2025, revenue will mainly
consist of relatively low-margin – yet also low-risk – cooperative contracting and, to a lesser extent, of competitive
and negotiated contracts. The share of revenue accounted
for by developer-contracted production sold to investors
will be low in 2025, and the share of developer-contracted
housing production will be very slight, as no new developer-contracted projects will be completed during the year.
We do not expect the market to turn around in the first half
of the current year, but I believe that the situation will gradually improve and that oversupply will dissolve towards
the last months of the year in the case of both owner-occupied and rental housing. We are prepared for rapid changes
in different customer segments if several market players
deem that the time is right to start investing. Building costs
are at their lowest in the cycle, the affordability and availability of financing are improving, the oversupply of housing
is levelling out and rents are beginning to creep up, which
makes this a highly attractive market for property investors who are able to see the potential for return, say, five
years down the line.
 I want to thank all our customers and stakeholders –
and especially our staff – for a productive year in 2024!