SSAB is accelerating mix change to
premium products
Despite a challenging market in 2024, SSAB reported an operating
result of SEK 7.9 (16.5) billion and the financial position is strong.
The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 2.60 (5.00) per share, in line
with SSAB’s dividend policy. We are benefiting from our high share
of special products and premium steels, and we have good
geographic spread with a presence in Europe, North America and
other markets. The investments in Oxelösund and Luleå will
increase our ability to grow the most profitable products.
During the year, we made progress with our
conversion project in Oxelösund as we continued
to build an even stronger SSAB. We took the
largest investment decision in the history of
SSAB to build a mini-mill in Luleå supporting the
continued change in the mix to more premium
products, including products with lower CO
2
emissions.
Safer workplace
With regard to our own efforts, we made good
progress during the year with relatively good
production stability and I would particularly like
to highlight the fact that SSAB became an even
safer workplace, with an improvement in lost
time injury frequency to 0.75 (0.87). We are
working towards our vision to be the world’s
safest steel company.
A weaker market, especially in the USA and
Europe, meant lower earnings than in 2023.
Nevertheless, we performed well compared to
the steel industry as a whole because through
the years we have consistently built up our
business in SSAB Special Steels with unique
products and a global sales organization that
none of our competitors can match. We have
also benefited from our efforts for more flexible
working hours and other cost savings.
Reducing emissions and improving the
product mix
Recent years have seen a strong focus on the
potential to mitigate climate change by reducing
emissions. The pendulum has now swung and
some quarters are increasingly questioning the
so-called green transition. For us, there is no
doubt that climate change is a real problem and we must do whatever we can to reduce
emissions.
The steel industry accounts for around 7% of
global carbon dioxide emissions. Once the free
allocation of emission allowances in the EU ETS
is gradually phased out, it will become more
expensive to continue making steel in blast
furnaces. The decision to replace the blast
furnaces in Oxelösund and Luleå will not just give
us a better competitive setup but also the chance
to reduce emissions by an amount
corresponding to 10% of Sweden’s total CO2
emissions. For this transformation to become a
reality. we need efficient permit processes and a
well-functioning infrastructure.
We are bearing our responsibility and investing in
new technology, and have an opportunity to
finance the transformation of our own plants
without any larger direct subsidies from society.
Our investments will increase the production
capacity of special products and create a more
efficient and flexible production system. We will
use our experience from running an EAF-based
production in the US for many years in our
transformation projects in Oxelösund and Luleå.
Re-positioning of SSAB Europe
Our biggest investment will be at our site in
Luleå, Sweden. The driving force behind the
project is to cut costs, improve the product mix
and largely remove carbon dioxide emissions.
I would particularly like to point out what we are
doing with the product mix as a result of our
investment in Luleå. Our customers are pushing
for more advanced products, they want lighter
structures and therefore need stronger steel.
SSAB has long been driving development in a
number of product categories. To continue to be
able to deliver unique customer value and to be
able to grow in our unique steel grades, we need
more advanced equipment since these products
cannot be made in traditional steel plants. In
Luleå, we will build advanced metallurgy, a new
hot rolling mill that will add new dimensions to
our product offering. At the same time, we can
offer the value-add from steels with low CO2
-
emissions in all product categories.
But it is the new cold rolling mill complex that will
make the difference and pave the way for SSAB
Europe to mainly become a manufacturer of highstrength steels and premium products.
This complex comprises a cold rolling mill and
production lines both for advanced galvanizing
and continuous annealing for very high strength
steels. We are re-positioning SSAB Europe from a
maker of standard steel into a business whereby
high-strength steel and other premium products
account for most of the business. We will also
halve fixed costs and reduce the need for
maintenance outages.
More efficient production
The transformation will also imply shorter lead
times, which means the time it takes from
melting the raw materials to finished plate. In our
existing Swedish strip system, which also
involves transporting steel slabs more than 900
km from Luleå to Borlänge, this currently takes
around four weeks.
Another advantage will be an ability to adjust
production volumes. Today, if we decide to shut
down a blast furnace temporarily, the outage will
last 2–4 weeks, resulting in lost production costs
among other things. The shutdown needs to be
planned in advance and, in addition, it is always
challenging to restart a blast furnace and get it
back to stable production after it has cooled
down. The new system will allow us to adjust to a
new production rate at just a few hours’ notice at
significantly lower costs.
Conversion of Oxelösund
Oxelösund is the hub of our high-strength steel
production and will be the first of our Nordic mills
to transform. During the year, construction of the
new electric arc furnace has gone to plan. We
have a scrap handling infrastructure in place to
bring scrap by ship to the harbor, sort it and then
use a container-based system to get the right
quality and mix in each melt. In addition, we will
be able to use a certain amount of fossil-free
sponge iron.
The pilot project for fossil-free sponge iron has
now been running for six years and together with
our partners – Vattenfall and LKAB – we have
reached several milestones in the new DRI
product. LKAB is planning to build a plant in
Gällivare, Sweden with a capacity of 1.3 million
tonnes of fossil-free sponge iron, which will be
the first of its kind. SSAB will have the possibility
to be able to use other iron products such as
natural gas-based HBI, recycled scrap and pig
iron.This will make a huge difference in flexibility
since our current Nordic production system relies
entirely on iron ore pellets.
More ambitious climate targets
SSAB’s climate targets have long been approved
by the Science Based Target initiative and in
2024 we updated our targets to meet the
requirements for the 1.5°C scenario. Our work
with sustainability is not only aimed at reducing
our environmental impact and improving our
safety culture, but also encompasses business
conduct, responsible purchasing and gender
equality in the workplace. The work is based on
the UN Global Compact principles on responsible
business, to which SSAB has been a signatory for
many years. We have also committed to
contribute to long-term sustainable development
in line with UN Sustainable Development Goals
and the Paris Agreement.
Strategy for profitable growth
SSAB’s strategy is to grow in special products
and premium steels, areas where we can stand
out from the competition and deliver unique
value to the customer. We will strengthen this
focus, which will permeate all our business areas
as we develop new products and services.
The focus is key to reaching our financial target
– to be the most profitable steel company. Our
planned investments combined with our
dedicated employees give us the tools we need. I
would like to thank our shareholders for their
confidence and support in the challenges ahead.
Finally, I would like to thank our employees, who
are every day contributing to building a stronger
SSAB.