Dear valued customers, shareholders,
partners, and colleagues,
Reflecting on the past year, I am delighted to share
the significant milestones of SSH Communications
Security Corporation’s journey in 2024. It was a
year of solid growth, improved profitability, and
new partnerships. We introduced innovative
security solutions and product upgrades, setting
the stage for even greater achievements in
2025. This year, we are inspired to build on this
momentum - delivering more, better, and faster.
We also proudly celebrate SSH’s 30th
anniversary in 2025. Founded by Tatu Ylönen,
SSH Communications Security pioneered
cybersecurity with the invention of Secure Shell
(SSH) which established the foundation for
secure internet communication, enabling safe
connections for networks, systems, and humans
worldwide.
The year 2024 marked a return to faster growth for
SSH Communications Security, driven by strong
performance in EMEA and APAC markets and
a renewed focus on partner development and
activation. A strategic reorganization enabled
us to improve profitability while sharpening
our focus on key priorities. Our PrivX Zero Trust
Suite took center stage, launching as part of the
Microsoft Entra ecosystem and establishing itself
as a cornerstone and growth opportunity of our
portfolio. With enhanced integration capabilities,
such as the connection between PrivX and NQX,
and tailored features for OT and MSP use cases,
PrivX achieved significant traction, particularly in
Japan.
We secured a €1.8 million multi-year order for
cryptographic solutions, reinforcing the trust and
value we provide to our customers. As a result, an
introduction of the FQX file encryption product is
taking place, which is set for commercialization
in 2025.
We made inroads into expanding our business
with our strong customer base and won several
new customers in all regions. From a Nordic
energy company to an Asian gaming company
to a North American digital payments company.
Peer recommendations for PrivX rose to 94% and
customer satisfaction for support got rated 6,7
out of 7.
To further highlight our commitment to excellence,
we achieved ISO/IEC 27001:2022 certification, a
testament to our strong dedication to security and
trust. We were approved as supplier for NATO’s
NCI Agency. NQX network security solution
receiverd Confidential TL III security rating from
NCSA Finland. We started the approval processes
for our solutions for EU and NATO Restricted
-level security.
Looking ahead to 2025, our focus will be on
enhancing profitability and accelerating growth
by increasing awareness and demand for our
products. We aim to expand our presence in
the USA, with particular attention to product
marketing and Federal (FIPS) opportunities.
We push forward for the adoption of our Zero
Trust solutions across OT, critical infrastructure,
and defense sectors. Additionally, we are
preparing for the commercialization of SalaX
Secure Messaging, which we believe will
resonate strongly with sectors such as defense,
government, healthcare, and commercial
enterprises.
As we continue our journey, our commitment
to innovation, operational excellence,
trustworthiness and customer satisfaction will
remain at the heart of everything we do.