Thanks to several efficiency improvement and costsaving actions across the entire Company, we were
able to deliver a significantly higher adjusted EBIT and
reduce working capital compared to 2023. However,
we were still far from our long-term financial targets,
and our systematic efforts to improve profitability and
reduce debt will continue.
Over the course of the year, the market gradually
recovered compared to the full year of 2023, although
consumer confidence and spending has yet to fully
rebound. Market uncertainties, along with fluctuations
in demand and pricing, persisted throughout 2024.
Our Forest division delivered record-high results,
primarily driven by increased wood prices. However,
high wood costs have continued to pressure margins
across the Group. We faced several challenges in the
market, including weak demand for consumer board,
overcapacity in corrugated board, a volatile pulp
market, a persistently weak construction sector, and
continued tightness in wood markets. To mitigate
these challenges, our Group-wide cost-saving
measures will continue to deliver results. 
Close relationships and engagements with both our
customers and employees are crucial, and I am
pleased that we continue to attain high scores in
customer satisfaction and employee engagement,
reflecting the strengths of Stora Enso. In my first year, we identified two key areas to enhance
shareholder value: improving operational
performance to boost competitiveness and achieving
commercial excellence in sales and sourcing. The
positive impact of this approach is evident in the 75%
increase of our adjusted EBIT. The biggest challenge has been the continued
volatility and market weakness, but we focus on
controlling what we can. We will do more with less and
become more efficient. My main mission is to drive
results and build a performance culture, where I see
significant potential for value creation. This positive
performance culture is based on the 4As: ambition,
agility, analytical approach, and accountability. This is
not just a project but a new culture and way of
working. The underlying effectiveness of our
organisation and our competitiveness must improve,
and my key performance indicator as a CEO is total
shareholder return, to maximise value for all
our shareholders. Stora Enso’s profit improvement, working capital
reduction, and value creation actions—focusing on
cost reduction through improved sourcing,
operational, and commercial efficiencies—made good
progress across all divisions. Our systematic working
capital reduction actions during the last 1.5 years
resulted in a significant reduction of operating working
capital of about EUR 700 million reducing the relation
to net sales from above 14% to 7%
Initiated in February 2024, Stora Enso’s profit
improvement programme, focused on fixed cost
savings, progressed successfully. The programme
aimed to reduce fixed costs and enhance annualised
adjusted EBIT by EUR 120 million, and includes a
reduction of approximately 1,000 employees, with no
closures of production sites. These reductions were
proportional to division sizes and addressed
persistently weak and uncertain market conditions.
The full impact in fixed cost savings is starting
from 2025.
The ongoing consumer board investment of
EUR 1 billion at the Oulu site in Finland progressed
according to plan. Production ramp-up will begin in
the first half of 2025, with full capacity estimated to
be reached by 2027.
During the second half of the year, we decided to stop
the divestment process and instead retain our Beihai
consumer packaging board production site and
forestry business. We recognise that the value of using
these assets internally exceeds the achievable
proceeds from a sale. This decision supports our
strategic aim to augment our leadership in the
sustainable fiber-based packaging market. By
optimising the product mix, the Beihai site will further
elevate our position as a leading global consumer
board supplier, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region.
We are committed to financial prudence, with no
significant capital expenditure expected in the midterm as we pursue these strategic enhancements.
As part of our ongoing efforts to improve financial
stability, we announced the decision to prepare for
the sale of approximately 12% of our forest assets in
Sweden, covering 1.4 million hectares with a book value
of EUR 6.3 billion. This divestment seeks to strengthen
our balance sheet and crystallise the economic value
of our forest holdings. While prioritising financial
stability through strategic decisions such as the
divestment of forest assets in Sweden, we remain
equally dedicated to upholding the highest
environmental standards across all areas
of operation.
We also announced the acquisition of Junnikkala Oy,
a Finnish sawmill company, for a total enterprise value
of up to EUR 137 million, depending on its performance
in the next years. This strategic move will bolster our
wood supply for Stora Enso’s packaging board site in
Oulu, Finland, while shoring up our wood products
business. Located near our Oulu site, Junnikkala
operates three sawmills, creating significant synergies,
including a stable supply of raw materials.
During the year, Stora Enso partnered with Altris,
a Swedish developer of sodium-ion batteries, to
incorporate renewable lignin in producing sustainable
anode materials for these batteries. This initiative
seeks to lower carbon emissions and promote
a circular economy in battery manufacturing.
We also entered a collaboration with Södra, Sweden’s
largest forest owner association, to secure a stable
supply of kraft lignin. This partnership will support
Stora Enso’s production of sustainable lignin-based
materials with high added value, advancing the
Company’s commitment to renewable products and
reducing its environmental impact. I am pleased to announce significant progress in our
sustainability efforts. As part of our long-term
commitment to sustainability, we have set ambitious
science-based targets aligned with the 1.5-degree
scenario. By the end of 2024, we achieved a 53%
reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2019.
This surpasses our target of a 50% reduction by 2030
and underscores our commitment to proactive
climate action. We remain dedicated to maintaining
and further reducing our emissions in line with our
business strategy.Scope 1 and 2 emissions, originating directly from our
operations and the energy we consume, are areas
where we can implement emission reductions
through investments and fuel switching. Our success
in these categories demonstrates our ability to
effectively mitigate our direct impact on climate
through operational efficiency and the
implementation of new technologies. We are also
committed to achieving a 50% reduction in our Scope
3 emissions by 2030, which include indirect emissions
from activities such as purchased goods and the
processing of sold products. Essentially, these
emissions represent the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of
other companies within our value chain.
As we continue working toward our Scope 3 target,
we are actively engaging and partnering with our
suppliers and customers. It is essential that the full
value chain commits to climate action together. By
doing so, we are not only achieving crucial emission
reductions for Stora Enso but also paving the way for
businesses of the future. All the businesses in which we operate are in growing
segments, driven by strong sustainability trends.
Stora Enso holds leading market positions in
renewable packaging, biomaterials, and sustainable
construction segments, all of which are positioned for
long-term growth. These areas align with evolving
sustainability trends and regulatory developments,
favouring our renewable and innovative product
offerings. Increased consumer demand and brand
owners’ focus on sustainability drive our commitment
to offering more sustainable products, strengthening
the market position of our circular solutions and
making them a preferred choice in the industry.
We are leveraging these advantages to increase our
market presence and continue our progress. This
strategic alignment positions us to seize current
opportunities while building resilience for future
advancement. Looking ahead, we are prioritising
capital allocation and asset strategy in expanding
market segments to amplify competitiveness and
drive profitable growth across the Group.
Promoting a positive performance culture has been
essential in creating an environment that supports
customer focus, operational efficiency, innovation,
and excellence. Our annual employee engagement
survey, conducted in November 2024, had both a high
response rate and an overall strong engagement rate,
exceeding the industry benchmark. I am proud of how
our people and the organisation have performed
during challenging times and as a team, we will
continue the good work going forward.
As we pursue our long-term financial targets, we are
well-equipped to embrace new opportunities, tackle
future challenges, and deliver value to all our
stakeholders. I want to thank our owners, employees,
customers and business partners who have worked
with us throughout the year. Thank you for your
continued collaboration, trust, and support.
