In 2024 we encountered both successes and
difficult moments. We saw gradual improvement
driven by both commercial and operational
excellence in the beginning of the year, but the
second half of the year was challenging for us. We encountered operational issues and took immediate
actions to address them. The recovery was fast and
there was no impact on our customer relationships.
Nevertheless, we endured unplanned production
downtime and additional expenses.
Regardless of the challenges, we reached our EBITDA
guidance, as our comparable EBITDA increased from the
previous year and was EUR 17.0 million (+8%). The main
contributor to the improvement was higher sales margins 
driven by the actions we took in commercial excellence.
Our net sales in 2024 were EUR 462.3 million (+2.5%).
We will continue to take determined actions to improve
our financial and operational efficiency.
Sustainability and innovation at the core of
everything we do
The cornerstones of our strategy are sustainability and
innovations, and we continuously develop our capabilities, offerings and operations accordingly – especially in terms
of sustainability.
Sustainability is a priority for our customers and
other stakeholders alike. The wiping materials for the
nonwovens market is evolving rapidly and growing fast,
with a strong shift toward more sustainable alternatives.
Aligned with our strategy, we have set targets to increase
sales of sustainable products and to continuously develop
new environmentally friendly nonwoven materials.
We strive to enable our customers to enhance their
sustainability efforts mainly through our new product
offering and contribute to a more sustainable future. In
2024, we increased the sales of sustainable products by
87%, exceeding our target of a 50% increase compared to
the base year 2019. Our target is also to launch over 10
sustainable products annually, and in 2024, we launched
11 such products.
Aligned with our strategy and vision to be the
frontrunner in sustainability and innovation in the
nonwoven arena, we made investments during the year
to enhance our capabilities in sustainable products.
In August, we announced an investment for a new
production line at our site in Alicante, Spain. The EUR
20 million investment addresses the growing demand
for sustainable nonwovens in Europe, with completion
expected at the end of 2025. Earlier, in May, we
announced plans to upgrade a production line in Bethune,
South Carolina, USA, further strengthening our leadership
and capabilities in sustainable nonwovens in the Americas
market. The project is on track, targeted to be completed
in the first half of 2025.
Our strong ability to innovate and respond to market
needs and trends is reflected in the share of new products
of our net sales, which is 34%. By new products, we mean
products launched less than three years ago.
Occupational safety is a priority for us, and our goal is
zero accidents. In 2024, we had 4 lost time accidents.
We initiated a safety awareness campaign to highlight the
importance of safety procedures.
Strengthening employee engagement is another key
people-related target for us. In 2024, we conducted our
fifth consecutive global employee engagement survey.
The response rate was good, and the results help us
identify factors that are positively affecting employee 
engagement as well as areas where we still have
opportunities for improvement.
In 2024, we took part in the EcoVadis sustainability
assessment for the third time and improved our score
from silver to gold level. The result places Suominen in the
top 1% of companies in the manufacture of other textiles
industry and in the top 5% of all companies in all industries
rated by EcoVadis.
Towards the future
Looking ahead, we see that the market demand continues
to be solid. However, the competition has tightened due
to the geopolitical tensions and increased imports from
low-cost countries. We have a comprehensive portfolio
of new products which partly mitigates the effects of the
imports and we are currently investing in our product lines
to be able to further increase the share of new and more
sustainable products in our sales mix. We continue to
improve the overall effectiveness of our organization and
ways of working.
I want to extend my heartfelt thanks to our shareholders,
customers, and partners for their invaluable collaboration.
Above all, I want to express my gratitude to our employees
for their commitment and contributions. Together, with
determination and a shared vision, I am confident that we
will continue to achieve our goals and reach new heights.
