Climate-conscious and profitable action
The year 2024 was a year of strategic initiatives for Taaleri. Our business units carried out key fundraising and internationalisation projects, which provided the company with enhanced capabilities to promote sustainable investments in the years to come.

In 2024, we advanced our strategy based on renewable energy, bioindustry and internationalisation, and increased our assets under management despite challenging fundraising conditions. This highlights our proven ability to deliver results and underscores our potential as the fundraising market stabilises. However, rather than being remembered for the momentary challenges in raising new capital, the past year will go down in history due to accelerated climate change. The year 2024 was the first calendar year in recorded history when the average global surface temperature exceeded the 1.5 °C threshold set in the Paris Agreement. Every effort is now required to prevent catastrophic outcomes for the environment and society. This is why there will be an even greater need for the solutions offered by our businesses focusing on renewable energy and bioindustry in the future. Finland’s largest renewable energy fund We are mitigating climate change by directing assets under management towards sustainable investments. The highlight of 2024 was the growth of our SolarWind III Fund, which invests in renewable energy. The fund continues the successful approach of its predecessors, the SolarWind funds, enabling us to further expand investments in solar and wind power as well as battery storage assets in Europe and the United States. The fund has attracted significant interest from institutional investors supporting the green transition. By the end of 2024, the fund had raised more than 480 million in commitments, with over half of this capital originating internationally. It is the largest renewable energy fund managed in Finland and also Taaleri Energia’s third international private equity fund. The fund’s considerable size reinforces our position as one of the leading players in the renewable energy infrastructure asset class in Europe. From fossil-based to bio-based economy In addition to renewable energy, we also advanced our bioindustry projects. Bioindustry is a key strategic focus area for Taaleri, with significant growth potential. The business seeks to identify and leverage new opportunities in bioeconomy and to support the development and scaling of innovative bio-based or circular-economy materials, products and technologies that facilitate the transition away from a fossil-based economy. Our expanded team made investments and explored potential new targets for the Taaleri Bioindustry Fund I last year. Geopolitical tensions and inflation are temporarily affecting our operating environment. The political climate has become more critical towards regulations promoting sustainable development compared to previous years. Nonetheless, we remain optimistic about the long-term outlook. Climate change must be addressed Climate-conscious and profitable action globally by transitioning to renewable energy, low-carbon products and production methods. This creates attractive investment opportunities aligned with our core expertise and long-term vision. I started as CEO of Taaleri in January 2025. Having become familiar with the company during my nearly year-long tenure as CFO, I am delighted to lead this expert group of professionals towards our shared goals. Through the dedication and expertise of our employees, we are building a stronger Taaleri. I also wish to thank our investors, clients and shareholders for their trust and support as we take the next steps towards sustainable energy production, fossil-free industry and value creation in our other business units.