We proceeded systematically with our targets, even though
the more challenging general economic situation impacted
2024:
• Improving profitability was our main goal. We improved
the absolute EBITDA by 9%, i.e. EUR 2.9 million, but we
missed our target mainly due to the economic cycle in
Finland and Sweden.
• In Sweden, we managed to migrate the remaining
targeted 50% of customers to our accounting system
during the latter part of the year. Systematic accounting
production for these customers will begin in 2025. We
expect systems, operating models, processes and One
Talenom benefits to be visible in Sweden as improving
financial performance during the second half of 2025.
• Our third goal was to accelerate organic growth.
Overall, we succeeded in acquiring new customers and
generating additional sales to existing customers as
targeted. Despite record-high new sales, the economic
slowdown significantly impacted net sales development,
as the average net sales per customer decreased and
customers’ business closures reached record levels
while other churn remained at a normal level. To
develop our long-term scalable growth capability, we
began incorporating our own software and offering it to
customers outside Talenom’s accounting firm clientele.
STRATEGY
Our competitive advantage is based on a comprehensive
approach that covers the entire value chain through own
software and service. This approach has broadened our
expertise over the years, making the entrepreneur’s life
as easy as possible, automating the accountant’s routines,
and enabling a conceptualized service that takes care of
customers. In the updated strategy, our comprehensive
approach remains unchanged.
The software business will form a second strategic pillar
going forward and we will start offering our software also
to other accountants, accounting firms and their customers.
While we will focus clearly on growing our accounting
services and software business in the future, we will
transfer other service areas outside our core business
to our strategic partners, and our customers will receive
comprehensive services through our partner ecosystem
in the future. With this change, we focus our operations
on further improving our profitability. With the updated
strategy, we abandoned debt collection services in late
2024 and renewed the cooperation agreement for banking
services to correspond with the strategy. In addition, we
separated the software business into its own company and
conducted related change negotiations.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Net sales for the full year were EUR 126.2 million (121.7).
The growth was 3.7% (19.2), which was subdued compared
to history. The market environment was challenging,
especially in Finland and Sweden. In Finland, the volumebased decline in net sales levelled off towards the end of
the year, and general economic indicators suggest the worst
is over. In Spain, the economic cycle has continued to be
positive and demand for our services is good. We grew
there both organically and through acquisitions in 2024.
We succeeded in improving profitability measured by
EBITDA. In 2024, EBITDA was EUR 34.8 million (31.9)
and comparable operating profit was EUR 11.4 million
(11.1). Most of the EBITDA improvement came from
Finland and Spain. Development in Sweden slowed down
the improvement in the Group’s profitability as net sales
in Sweden remained below the comparison period. The
Group’s comparable operating profit improved slightly,
but its development was slowed by increased amortisation
of software investments and one-off costs related to the
formation of the software business.
The Group’s profitability weakened in the last quarter.
The one-off cost impact of the change negotiations
was estimated to be EUR 0.5 million. Furthermore, the
placement of public holidays in December and vacation days
reduced the actual number of working days in December.
Profitability development was also slowed down by net
sales development, especially in Sweden, as well as the
ongoing implementation of the company’s own software,
which kept the cost level higher than normal, especially in
the last quarter.
The change negotiations carried out in the last quarter
will lower the level of software investments in 2025 by
approximately EUR 2.3 million, which will have a positive
impact on cash flow and a mitigating effect on the increase
in depreciation in 2025. The impact of the new investment
level on depreciation will start to be more clearly visible
in the coming years. We have invested very determinedly
in the development of our systems for a long time. Now
our overall system has reached a level that allows us to
permanently reduce investments in it.
We look positively to the future. In recent years, we have
invested heavily in internationalisation and we believe it
will bear fruit in the near future. In 2025, our focus is on
improving profitability in Sweden through more systematic
implementation of our own software, processes and the
best practices of ONE Talenom. In Spain, the entry into force
of the e-invoicing Directive enables, in addition to properly
leveraged organic and inorganic growth, an increase in
software sales. In the software business, we focus on
building sales channels and developing SaaS capabilities.
The updated strategy focuses our operations. This allows
us to focus our energy on our long-built core competencies:
growing the accounting firm service and software business.
The expectation of the economy turning to growth in
Finland and Sweden in 2025 also enables faster growth
and profitability development, alongside other factors.
I would like to thank our customers for their trust during the
past year, our excellent personnel for their commitment to
building Talenom, and our partners for creating joint growth.