In 2024 Tecnotree
experienced multiple
headwinds, yet we
managed three positive
free cash flow quarters.
ECNOTREE DEMONSTRATES SISU IN A
PIVOTAL YEAR
 2024 was a transformative year for Tecnotree
as we navigated macroeconomic challenges and currency volatility with resilience and strategic agility.
Through disciplined cost optimization, we exceeded
our cost-saving targets, achieving EUR 6.9 million in
savings, surpassing the EUR 4.5 million previously
committed in guidance. Our exit from high-risk
frontier markets and focus on Tier 1 and Dollardenominated markets have bolstered our financial
position and have us on track for meeting guidance
of reducing our foreign exchange (fx) exposure in
frontier markets within the next three years.
Our strategy places greater emphasis on developed
markets, reducing exposure to geopolitical risks and
ensuring more predictable revenue streams. We are
actively diversifying our customer base to cross sell
and upsell to existing key customers, while expanding
our footprint into mature markets to achieve a
balanced growth and stable revenue.
STRATEGIC MILESTONES
We celebrated significant milestones, including our
landmark entry into the U.S. market with a Tier 1
telco deal, validating our investment in TM Forum
standards and AI-driven telecom transformation. Our
Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) model grew by 8%
YoY, enhancing revenue predictability and customer
renewals.
 However, we acknowledge the challenges in our
industry. The market for Business Support Systems
(BSS) is facing stagnation, and pricing pressures are
intensifying. Additionally, our share price experienced
volatility due to the reverse stock split, reflecting
investor concerns and market uncertainties. We
recognized that our investor communication has not
been sufficiently clear, contributing to this volatility
and we have taken active steps after Q3 to improve
our investor communication. In the Q3 report we
also gave out a new guidance that guides our decision making to focus on positive free cash flow
and a new dividend policy which is 10% of the free
cash flow.
With three consecutive quarters of positive free
cash flow, we are confident in our financial resilience
and have raised our 2025 full-year free cash flow
guidance. As we continue to scale with AI-led
automation and a robust recurring revenue model,
Tecnotree is well-positioned for predictable, scalable,
and profitability, despite industry headwinds.
DIVERSITY, INCLUSION
AND SUSTAINABILITY
We are also proud to present our first Sustainability
Report in combination the annual report, marking an
important milestone in our sustainability journey. We
have conducted a Double Materiality Assessment
(DMA), a process that helps us understand our impact
on society and the environment, as well as how these
factors can affect our business.
 In 2024, we successfully met our guidance by
executing our strategic initiatives with discipline and
agility.
Revenue in Constant Currency: met at 4% (guidance
2-7%).
EBIT in Constant Currency Achieved with 9%
(guidance 7-15%).
Free Cash Flow: 2.2M cash flow in H2 (guidance was
EUR 2-5 million).
This achievement reflects the dedication of our team
and the continued trust of our stakeholders.
I extend my heartfelt gratitude to our dedicated
team, loyal customers, and stakeholders for their
unwavering support and trust. Together, we are
building a stronger, more resilient Tecnotree.