Time to deliver
At Telia, we always start with our customers.
In reflecting on an eventful 2024 and looking
ahead to a 2025 of growth, I’ll do just that.
Every day, millions of people rely on Telia’s
networks and services. This makes us uniquely
relevant. We provide the backbone of today’s
hyper-digitalized societies – everything from
taking a connected bus to work, collaborating
with colleagues via online tools and calling home
ahead of dinner depends on Telia.
The changes we made in 2024 will help us to serve
our customers better. Introducing a country-based
operating model empowers us to understand their
needs at first hand, and to act immediately on
opportunities. While involving difficult decisions,
including a reduction of 3,000 positions, this
process has made us a simpler, faster and more
efficient company.
It’s early days, but we’re already seeing positive
effects. Across Telia, our teams are taking
ownership and focusing on growth, and I’m so
inspired by the determination of everyone to get
the most from our new set-up.
This gives us momentum for 2025 – which is
exactly what we need.
A clear strategy
Our mid-term targets are ambitious. For the period
2025 to 2027, we’re committed to a compound
annual growth rate (CAGR) of 2% for service
revenue, adjusted EBITDA CAGR of 4% and annual
CAPEX below SEK 14 billion, as well as free cash
flow of at least SEK 10 billion by 2027.
Equally importantly, we will continue working
towards net zero emissions in our value chain
by 2040. Addressing climate change is a shared
responsibility that we at Telia take very seriously.
All this takes place against a backdrop of
accelerating complexity, change and competition.
Our company, like every other, must navigate
today’s generational shifts in technology,
geopolitical instability and an uncertain macroeconomic outlook. This requires us to adapt and
evolve constantly, while further sharpening our
competitive edge. So, we know where we’re heading, and we have a
clear plan to deliver:
We operate in Nordic and Baltic markets where we
have the potential to secure a #1 or #2 position in
connectivity or adjacent services.
We win by inspiring customer experiences,
network and technology quality, and being a
trusted and sustainable partner.
Our priorities are to simplify, innovate and grow.
We get it done through people and culture,
structure and processes, and ways of working.
And tying it all together is Telia’s purpose –
reinventing better connected living.
Delivering on this strategy will create value for all
our stakeholders. That means loyal customers,
engaged employees, empowered societies and
satisfied shareholders.
Our growth levers
The question is: as a leader in mature, highly
developed markets, what’s our formula for growth?
The answer is that many levers are available to us,
and we’ll use all of them in 2025 and beyond.
Firstly, it’s about getting our pricing right and
growing revenues, based on the unmatched
quality Telia delivers to our customers. Our 5G
networks now cover 97% of the total population
across our five direct-to-consumer markets, and
the independent benchmarking organization
umlaut has named Telia’s mobile network Sweden’s
best five years in a row. In fact, our score puts us in
the global top five.
In a similar vein, we’re working on how we
package, bundle and upsell services. We have
a successful proof-of-concept with a TV offering
in Sweden that’s as highly rated as any big
Hollywood series. Through exclusive partnerships,
we provide the most attractive streaming
services and TV channels in one place, which
also strengthens our converged household
proposition by driving broadband demand. In
2024, Telia Sweden added approximately 80,000
TV customers and grew TV revenues 22%, while
Svenskt Kvalitetsindex named these TV customers
the most satisfied in Sweden for the ninth time in
10 years.
At the same time, our world-class infrastructure
– and the deep trust Telia has earned throughout
our more than 170-year history – creates an
opportunity to expand our range of missioncritical partnerships in key sectors like healthcare,
defense and more.
While we do all this, we will actively manage our
portfolio to make us a simpler Telia. We’ve recently
agreed the sale of our TV & Media business,
including the TV4 and MTV brands in Sweden
and Finland respectively, to Schibsted Media at an
enterprise value of SEK 6.55 billion on a cash and
debt-free basis. We’ll continue to offer TV4 and
MTV content in our market-leading consumer TV
packages, reinforcing Telia’s successful role as a
media aggregator.
The transaction is expected to close in Q3 this
year at the latest, subject to customary regulatory
One key performance metric is our Net Promoter
Score (NPS), which is based on a single question
to customers: “how likely are you to recommend
Telia to others?”.
The NPS reflects the total experience of being
a Telia customer: from sales and support to
installation and innovation, everything we do is
relevant. By 2027, we want Telia’s customers to be
the most satisfied and loyal in the industry, and
reaching this target is therefore on all of us.
Doing what we say
This brings us back to where we started – our
customers.
Leading this amazing Telia team, I’m constantly
reminded of the position we have, and the vital
role we play for individuals, small businesses,
governments and many others. We’re reinventing
better connected living – how many companies
can say that? This gives us a one-of-a-kind
platform to grow, while making a positive
difference to the world around us.
As I start my second year here, we have our
strategy, operating model and targets in place.
We will do what we say. Now it’s about delivering
– for our customers, and for our employees,
investors and societies.