Stronger in the new
strategic phase
In 2024, we achieved a strong result in a challenging environment.
We exceeded the profitability target ahead of schedule, our
financial position was strong, and customer satisfaction and
professional engagement were at a record level.
Terveystalo's year 2024 was very strong by all indicators.
Our revenue grew by 4 percent to EUR 1.34 billion in
2024, and adjusted EBITA was 12.8 percent of revenue.
Earnings per share increased to EUR 0.57. The Board of
Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a
dividend of EUR 0.48 per share (in accordance with our
updated dividend policy) in 2025.
The Healthcare Services segment's good profit
development continued throughout the year. Brisk
revenue growth, structurally improved profitability,
and record-high customer satisfaction create a strong
foundation for the current year and the next phase
of the strategy. Following our profit improvement 
programme, we have accelerated investments in our
physical network and digital services to support organic
growth. Our objective is to consistently improve our
service competitiveness, customer value, medical quality,
and operational efficiency.
Revenue of the Portfolio businesses segment
decreased during the year due to the planned
termination of loss-making outsourcing agreements,
elimination of low margin staffing contracts, and weak
consumer purchasing power. However, profitability for
the full year improved thanks to determined work in
difficult market conditions. The portfolio businesses are
now on a stronger footing, and the risks of old contracts have been reduced. During the current strategy period,
the segment aims to enhance profitability, pursue
growth in various services, including dental health, and
explore new opportunities in public markets.
Revenue from the Swedish business also decreased
due to expired contracts and weak demand caused
by the macro environment. The market has been
challenging for 18 months, but signs of recovery are
emerging. In Sweden, the profitability programme
initiated a year ago has led to cost adjustments and
enhanced operational efficiency. The monthly financials
already show an improvement in profitability. The
programme will maintain its emphasis on enhancing
operational efficiency while progressively expanding its
focus on commercial activities. We anticipate that the
impacts of the programme will become evident as a
turnaround starting from early 2025, and the targeted
SEK 120 million annual (run-rate) EBITA improvement to
materialise during the year.
Following a successful 2024, our company is stronger
than ever. We have successfully reduced our risk profile
and developed clear strategies to further enhance
performance across our three business areas. Our focus
remains on profitable growth, continuous improvement
of service quality for our customers, and delivering
shareholder value. We target a 10 percent EPS growth
and aim to maintain a net debt to EBITDA ratio of a
maximum of 2.5 times. In line with our commitment to
our shareholders, we will distribute at least 80 percent
of net profit as dividends. Long-term trends support
the growth of private healthcare, and we have excellent
prerequisites for long-term value creation.
Advancing technology for fluent,
caring, and effective healthcare
During the Capital Markets Day in December, we outlined
our upcoming strategy phase and revised financial
targets. As a company, we have a clear purpose; We
fight for a healthier life. We want to provide solutions to
the biggest sustainability challenges in healthcare and
ensure timely access and the most effective care, while
the population ages and the need for care increases.
The chronic shortage of healthcare professionals in
the industry requires that valuable intellectual capital
is utilised in a sustainable way that creates value for
society. These themes are also at the core of our strategy
which revolves around providing fluent, caring, and
effective integrated care for our customers, ensuring their
needs are met in the best possible way. By seamlessly
integrating services across different stages of the
care path and effectively using data, we aim to offer
exceptional customer experience and medical quality.
Over the next two years, we will significantly improve
the efficiency of appointment processes and support
functions through the integration of automation and AI.
Our sustained investments in our digital platform will
facilitate this integration, ensuring that our customers
benefit from the most advanced technologies available.
We will continue to lead the industry and develop an
efficient, effective, and customer-centric healthcare
system that really works.