Continued focus on resilience and capturing
the opportunities of AI
2024 was another dynamic year. Affected by the
ongoing geopolitical uncertainty, the
macroeconomic environment challenged our
growth ambitions for the year.
Group-level revenue declined organically by 2%
year on year. We were, however, able to maintain
healthy profitability (adjusted EBITA) of 12.3% for
the full year – driven by our businesses’ attention to
resilience and efficiency. The full-year organic
growth and profitability results were aligned with
the company’s guidance update issued in October.
As a result of strong operating cash flow of EUR 326
million for 2024 and a solid financial position at the
end of the year, the Board of Directors has decided
to propose an increase in the dividend to EUR 1.50
per share, in line with our dividend policy.
In parallel with our focus on resilience, we have
continued to strengthen the foundation for growth
and expansion across our businesses to capture
the opportunities once the macroeconomic
environment recovers. Our current estimation is
that this recovery will begin gradually from the
second half of 2025.
Driving value from technology adoption
through specialization
Over the past five decades, we have helped our
customers thrive through multiple cycles of
technology evolution. This has required us to
reinvent ourselves several times, and we are also
currently going through a multi-year strategic
transformation.
From 2022, after a long period of operating as an
integrated IT company, we have established
specialization as our foundation for competitiveness
and value creation to our stakeholders. This
specialization is delivered through our five distinct
businesses: Tietoevry Create (core: digital
engineering), Tietoevry Banking (core: software),
Tietoevry Care (core: software), Tietoevry Industry
(core: software) and Tietoevry Tech Services (core:
managed services).
In our view, the software and digital engineering
businesses provide the strongest potential for value
creation. During 2024, we continued to make
consistent progress in our ambition to reposition
Tietoevry as a leading company in these two
domains. Tangible steps taken during the year
included: our global digital engineering business
Tietoevry Create renewed its operating model; we
welcomed new Managing Directors to Tietoevry
Create and Tietoevry Banking; and each of our
specialized businesses refined their strategies.
When 2024 began, we had strategic reviews
ongoing for Tietoevry Banking and Tietoevry Tech
Services. On 25 April, we announced that the review
of Banking was concluded, with the decision that it
would remain a specialized business within the
Group. On 24 October, we announced that the
strategic review of Tietoevry Tech Services had
progressed to an exclusive process with a nonindustrial buyer. At the time of writing this report, the
strategic review of Tietoevry Tech Services is
expected to be concluded in March 2025.
During the year we continued to witness the
advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI) related
technologies, including Generative AI. These
technologies bring tremendous opportunities that
will continue to be unveiled and harnessed in the
years to come.
Tietoevry is actively enabling the AI agenda. Each of
our specialized businesses is driving AI innovation
and competitiveness in the products and services
delivered to our customers as well as efficiency
gains across our own software development,
production and internal operations. Solutions such
as GenAI-driven automated speech to text
conversion in the Lifecare Electronic Health Record
(EHR) and AI-enabled Financial Crime Prevention in
Banking are tangible and encouraging signals of the
value we can create for our customers in this area.
We also take highly seriously the ethical
considerations embedded in the development and
utilization of technology, including AI. During 2024,
our annual training for employees included a new
module on Responsible AI. We remain committed to
keeping ourselves at the forefront of technology
adoption, also with respect to our responsible
approach.
Tietoevry Sustainability Pledge: Focus
on climate action, ethical conduct and
social impact
We have continued to advance our sustainability
work and ambitions, taking into account the evolving
regulatory landscape as well as anticipated changes
both within our operating environment and society
at large. In March 2024, we launched the Tietoevry
Sustainability Pledge to guide and accelerate the
company’s sustainability performance for 2024 and
beyond. The Pledge focuses on three key pillars:
climate action, ethical conduct and social impact.
Each pillar includes specific areas with time-bound
and measurable targets, as well as clear roadmaps to
achieve them.
More details on the Pledge and our first round of
annual results are available in this Annual Report &
Sustainability Statement.
People matter(s)
Beyond the value that technologies such as AI bring
to people, businesses and societies, technology
development also fuels continuous learning and
professional growth for Tietoevry employees. We
encourage our people to embrace these
opportunities.
Employee engagement is a key indicator of success
for Tietoevry. In our latest company-wide
measurement – taken during the fourth quarter –
overall employee engagement remained at the
healthy level of previous years, which is
encouraging. Our attrition level was at its lowest
level in several years, at 8.3% (down by ~2% YoY). In
2024, we welcomed approximately 2,100 new
colleagues to Tietoevry.
We strongly rely on our core values of openness,
trust and diversity at all times. As a concrete
example, we continue to leverage the flexible hybrid
ways of working co-created with our employees in
2021.
At Tietoevry we are sad to see the war in Ukraine
continuing. It has been truly humbling to witness the
resilience and dedication our Ukrainian colleagues
continue to show under these highly stressful
circumstances.
The security of our employees and our operations –
including the services we provide to our customers –
is always a top priority for us. Cybersecurity has now
become a fundamental enabler of the digital society
and continuous improvement is vital, as the threat
landscape is constantly evolving.
In January 2024, one of our data centres in Sweden
was partially hit by a ransomware attack,
unfortunately impacting several of our customers in
the country. This has been a distressing experience
that underscored the reality of living in an era of
growing cybercrime.
Looking ahead
We anticipate that market softness in IT services will
continue into 2025, impacting all our businesses. We
see customers continuing to focus on resilience and
prioritizing initiatives that yield results in the short
term, and the high pressure on public spending is
especially visible in the Nordics. Tietoevry’s business
mix provides resilience in this challenging
environment as our specialized businesses
encompass a significant proportion of long-term
customer engagements.
The shift to cloud native and data-driven
technologies is highly visible as customers drive for
agility, productivity and competitiveness. With the
technology market evolving even further towards AI,
we anticipate that this next cycle of transformation
will create high demand for related services and
result in healthy market growth in the coming years.
Reliable data management and security practices
play an increasing role in capturing AI-driven
opportunities.
While the market continued to be challenging in
2024, it has been encouraging to see how our
businesses are working together with customers and
partners to find solutions and avenues for innovation
and future growth by actively exploring and
harnessing the benefits of the latest advancements
in technology.
It is in our DNA as a technology company to
constantly renew ourselves. At Tietoevry we are now
firmly focused on strengthening our foundation for
business acceleration once the macroeconomy turns
upward again.
I want to sincerely thank all our stakeholders for the
excellent collaboration in 2024. We look forward to
continuing to work closely with you in 2025 and
beyond. 