2024 was a challenging year for
property developers and
investors, but it also offered opportunities
for bold players. Toivo went against the tide
and increased its market share in a difficult
environment. In addition, operating profit
turned out to be fairly good.
Despite the challenges in the real estate
market, Toivo signed contracts for more than
EUR 200 million and was involved in four
of the 20 largest real estate transactions
in Finland during the year. This shows that
we have strengthened our position in the
market. In addition, the company’s expansion
in community properties from piloting to
production is pleasing.
The housing demand will be visible in the
Helsinki metropolitan area in 2025, and the
demand for new apartments is growing.
Toivo’s market share in non-subsidised
apartment building production increased
to approximately 10 per cent, which is an
indication of successful acquisitions and
investments. Construction costs have stabilised
and signs of recovery can be seen in the rental
market. This opens up opportunities for longterm investments. Now is the right time to take
advantage of the market situation and further
strengthen our position.
During 2024, our strategy has worked as
planned and we have continued to develop,
build, own and sell in a balanced manner.
DEVELOPMENT: We are preparing for the
future and the opening up of the market with
a project development portfolio of some 3,200
apartments, of which 91% are located in the
Helsinki metropolitan area.
CONSTRUCTION: During the year, the
construction of 276 new apartments was
started and contracts for the construction of
271 apartments were signed.
OWNERSHIP: The occupancy rate was one
of the lowest in history in the latter half of the
year, but its trend has turned upwards.
SELLING: The last quarter of the year was
strong in terms of sales for Toivo. The company
entered into contracts for properties worth
more than EUR 200 million.
We are now in a situation where the economic
environment is showing signs of recovery.
Lower interest rates support investments, and
activity in the housing market is expected to
increase. Toivo is ready to take advantage of
this development.
The company’s financial position has
strengthened: the equity ratio increased to
48.9% and the loan-to-value ratio decreased
to 43.9%. This gives us good conditions for
growth.
Toivo will continue its determined growth and
development of its operations. I would like to
thank our customers, partners and, above all,
the Toivo team for their great work in 2024.
2025 brings new opportunities, and we are
ready to seize them!