Strong growth in customer visits, record high comparable EBIT in the fourth quarter
There was strong growth in customer visits at Tokmanni and Dollarstore during the fourth quarter. Tokmanni
segment’s like-for-like customer visits grew by 5.0% and Dollarstore segment’s grew by 6.0%. We were very
successful with our product ranges and marketing for the high season. Overall, Tokmanni Group’s revenue
grew by 5.5% in the fourth quarter to EUR 496.9 million (471.2).
Customers’ purchasing behaviour continued to be cautious, which was reflected as a smaller number of
products in the shopping basket and a greater emphasis on promotional products and grocery products. As a
result, Tokmanni Group’s comparable gross margin decreased in the fourth quarter to 35.7% (36.5%).
Operating expenses grew moderately in the fourth quarter and the Group’s comparable EBIT increased to
EUR 47.5 million (46.2).
The Tokmanni and Dollarstore integration is progressing as planned. The annual synergies achieved by the
end of December 2024 already amounted to EUR 13.3 million. Our initial goal is to achieve annual synergy
benefits of over EUR 15 million by the end of this year. We are constantly increasing our joint purchases,
especially in non-grocery, which will bring new products especially to Dollarstore segment’s assortment.
We had a very exciting start to 2025, as we signed a licence agreement with SPAR International. This longterm cooperation will enhance Tokmanni Group’s competitiveness in many different areas. The first SPAR
products will be available in all Tokmanni stores by the summer.
We will continue to decisively develop Tokmanni Group into the leading discount retailer in the Nordic
countries. Our expansion to new locations will continue in all our market areas, in addition to which we are
continuously investigating opportunities to enter new markets.
I would like to extend my warmest thanks to our customers and partners and, above all, to all Tokmanni
Group employees for the year 2024. 