I am John Ojanperä and I now have the pleasure of writing my first
CEO’s review. In early November, I took the baton from Patrick Anderson,
who has led the company for 18 years, and who will be nominated as full-time
Chairman of the Board at the AGM in spring 2025. I have started my new role as
CEO of United Bankers Plc filled with curiosity and excitement. I have been
part of the UB team for ten years. For the last eight years, I have been the
CEO of our fund management company and a member of the Group’s
management team. The company has evolved enormously in that time. During Patrick’s tenure as CEO, which began in 2007, a new
growth strategy was created for the company, the company went
public and UB has become one of the leading alternative investment management companies in the Nordic region. I have had
the pleasure of working closely with Patrick for a long time and I
am delighted that our close cooperation will continue in the future.
The year 2024 was one of slowing inflation and falling interest
rates. It was a mixed year for the investment markets: global equity, interest rate and forestry markets performed well, while the
Finnish real estate and equity markets clearly underperformed the
rest of the world. For the United Bankers Group, 2024 was the strongest year in
terms of revenue and operating profit in the company’s 38-year
history and the sixth consecutive record-breaking year. Revenue
increased by 19.1 per cent to EUR 62.1 million. Our adjusted operating profit increased as much as 40.0 per cent to EUR 23.7 million
and profit for the financial period rose by 33.3 per cent to EUR 18.4
million. Net subscriptions to our funds fell to EUR 128 million (EUR
187 million), as total sales of asset management products and
services increased by 4.7 per cent to EUR 524 million. Our costto-income ratio improved to 0.62 (0.67).
While the year was very strong in terms of the figures, in both absolute terms and relative to most of our competitors, it was also a
varied year in terms of business. Our forest funds and our wealth
management business again delivered excellent returns to our
clients and the returns of almost all of our other funds were also
positive. The largest net inflows were into our asset management
services and, on the fund side, into fixed income and renewable
energy.
On the other hand, it was a difficult year for new sales of all our
alternative funds, as the positive effects of interest rate cuts have
mainly carried over to 2025. Our real estate funds produced
slightly negative returns for our clients during the period, but we
avoided fund closures and significant redemptions thanks to the
excellent diversification of the funds, which are geographically
spread across the Nordic countries and broadly across property categories. In capital markets services business, on the other
hand, the quiet transaction market and the postponement of projects weighed on the performance, which was lower than both the
previous year and the targets. Moreover, once again, we were not
spared from the effects of general inflationary pressures on our
costs in the financial year just ended.
Despite the slower-than-normal growth in assets under management, we were able to deliver on our strategy with excellent
performance. In a nutshell, this meant simplifying our business
and focusing on the launch of new core funds and on fundraising. Around Europe, we met more new institutional investors than
ever before, and the first housing fund in the company’s history
was established. The fund aims to take advantage of the aboveaverage expected returns of the Finnish housing market, as many investors are forced to sell their housing stock in illiquid markets at
below-average valuation levels.
The biggest internal system reform in the company’s history was
rolled out in spring 2024. This will accelerate our efficiency work
in the future, as a single system will speed up and increase the
agility of the company’s operational processes and their further
development. At the same time, we will be able to further improve
the client experience.
Through our selection of funds, we want to play a stronger role in
addressing global environmental challenges while delivering excellent risk-adjusted returns to our clients. All our core funds are
working on global solutions, and through them we can make a difference, which is significantly greater than our size, in terms of the
mitigation of climate change, for example. These megatrends that
drive international capital flows will increasingly provide us with
tailwinds in the coming years.
At the end of 2024, United Bankers received excellent scores in
the PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) assessment of the
responsibility of its investment activities. In the asset-specific assessments, we received a full 5/5 stars for all scored assets and
improved our scores in the sections on engagement and voting
activity compared to the previous assessment in 2023.
We received some of our investor feedback in the form of positive subscriptions and some in the form of new shareholders. The
number of our shareholders increased by about 10 per cent during
the year and our share is the only one on the Helsinki Stock Exchange that has delivered a positive total return to its shareholders
for seven consecutive calendar years. As a result of the positive
value development, our company was upgraded to the Mid Cap
segment on the Helsinki Stock Exchange at the turn of the year.
The most important asset at United Bankers is the UB team. In
2024, United Bankers received the Most Inspiring Workplaces in
Finland recognition for the third year in a row, and the PeoplePower
Index, which measures employee engagement, continued to develop positively. Based on the results of the sustainability section
of the employee survey, United Bankers also received an award
for being the Most Responsible Workplace in Finland. As a strong
sign of commitment, we can mention that the share of ownership
of United Bankers among its personnel, board members and tied
agents totalled approximately 57 per cent of the company at the
end of the financial year.
As the new CEO, I look to the future of the company with confidence. The change of leadership will not change the company’s
strategic direction, but the new division of responsibilities within
the top management is expected to enable an even more effective
execution of the growth strategy – together with the UB team and
with all our stakeholders. As a person and a leader, I am first and
foremost a team player, which is why team spirit has always been
closest to my heart when it comes to our company’s values. I believe that together with the entire UB team we can go a long way.
I am surrounded by a top team, our focus is in the right place and
our products and services are of the highest quality. We now have
every opportunity to take the company to the next level.
Finally, I would like to thank our clients and shareholders for their
strong and long-standing trust. I would also like to thank the incredible UB team for their great teamwork in a demanding environment. The work done in 2024 and our record profit provide us
with an excellent basis to continue creating value for our clients
and other stakeholders. Our focus on generating future growth
is even more strongly beyond Finland’s borders and our goal is
to build our company into a European alternative fund manager.
This international growth will not prevent us from improving our
operations in Finland and we will not forget our roots. We want to
continue being the most trusted asset management partner for our
Finnish clients. 
