Leading the way
in climate action
and innovation
In 2024, the world continued to face complex
challenges, with increasing geopolitical tensions and
uncertainty in the business environment. Regardless
of the market challenges, we showed resilience
with good growth in our Weather and Environment
business and a strong position in Industrial
Measurements. It is our responsibility to be a technology leader
Alongside the critical concerns globally, the fight against climate change
remains one of the most pressing challenges requiring urgent attention.
With 2024 marking the warmest year on record, our renewed purpose of
Taking every measure for the planet is more important than ever.
At Vaisala, we see it as our responsibility towards our stakeholders
– shareholders, customers, colleagues, and the planet alike – to be a
technology leader enabling climate action. Vaisala is dedicated to providing
measurement instruments and insights for understanding, mitigating, and adapting to climate change, turning data into decisions, and decisions into
meaningful action for our planet.
In 2024, our global team continued executing our strategic priorities.
In Weather and Environment, we built upon our global leadership in
weather systems through important customer deals to deliver weather
radars to the State Meteorological Agency of Spain and a project to
modernize 14 airports in Indonesia. We acquired Speedwell Climate and
Maxar’s WeatherDesk to build Vaisala Xweather’s position as a weather
intelligence partner for insurance and finance customers, as well as
Nevis Technology to expand our offering in the offshore wind market. In
Industrial Measurements, we launched several new products and were able
to resiliently hold our position globally despite the challenging market.
In 2024, we continued our focus on research and development as a key
part of our technology leadership, with R&D investments amounting to
12% of net sales. We shifted our R&D focus towards new technologies and
products. Moreover, we continuously develop our operations, embracing
digitalization and AI as tools to simplify and scale for added customer
experience, quality, and profitability. In 2024, we also started building a
new automated logistics center in Vantaa, Finland. With state-of-the-art
automation technology, the facility will centralize all our various logistics
functions currently dispersed across our Vantaa campus into one
centralized location in Finland, ensuring fast deliveries to customers
around the world.
None of this work would be possible without our professional and
dedicated global team of diverse perspectives and backgrounds. To
ensure our position as a preferred employer, we actively track employee
engagement. Our annual Voice of People survey shows continuous strong
results across indices, with 84% (2023: 85%) of our employees being
proud to work for Vaisala and an Employee Net Promoter Score of 28 (29).
We are grateful for the engagement and dedication and are committed to
improving our employee development and well-being further. Towards the end of the year, we also announced changes in the Vaisala
Leadership Team. As of January 2025, Samuli Hänninen joined the Vaisala
Leadership Team and continues to lead the Xweather business, Anne
Jalkala started leading the Weather, Energy and Environment business and
Jarkko Sairanen the Industrial Measurements business area. Lorenzo Gulli
joined the company to lead strategy and M&A, and Sampsa Lahtinen retired
after a successful decade at Vaisala, more than tripling the Industrial
Measurements business in size. Our warmest thank you to Sampsa! We
look forward to working together with the new Leadership Team.
Commitment across the entire value chain
Our commitment to the planet covers the sustainability of our solutions,
operations, and the entire value chain worldwide. We have integrated
the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) both into
our strategic planning and the development of new products for climate
action. We continue our commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative
and its 10 principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environment,
and anti-corruption. In terms of our carbon footprint, our main opportunity is to decrease
indirect scope 3 emissions, which represent over 99% of Vaisala’s total
emissions. In 2023, we set science-based targets to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions by 2030. The targets were approved by the Science Based
Targets initiative (SBTi) in April 2024. During the year, we have started
several actions to further reduce our emissions, such as introducing
developments in R&D by making carbon footprint evaluation part of every
new product design and shifting from air to road transport in European
distribution. We also received a gold medal by EcoVadis, reflecting our
commitment to sustainability throughout our supply chain.
Among the best in the world for sustainable growth
In 2024, one of our highlights was the recognition by TIME Magazine as one
of the world’s best companies for sustainable growth. Based on revenue
growth, financial stability, and taking care of the environment, Vaisala took
the 38th place in the first edition of World’s Best Companies – Sustainable
Growth ranking by TIME Magazine and Statista. For us, caring for the
climate and driving sustainable growth go hand in hand, and it is a true
honor to be recognized by TIME for precisely this combination.
Taking every measure – together
Whereas the TIME recognition focused on financial metrics and
environmental footprint, we recognize that our true impact on the planet
comes through the work with and for our customers. We are grateful
for the great collaboration with our stakeholders, from customers and
shareholders to partners and colleagues, and look forward to continuing
our work for the planet in the years and decades to come. 
