A new chapter
for Valmet
As I reflect on my start as President and CEO of Valmet, I am
filled with immense pride and excitement for the future. Since
joining this remarkable company in mid-August, I have had the
privilege of engaging with our valued customers and committed
employees across all our regions around the world. It has been
rewarding and energizing to witness firsthand the passion and
innovation that drive our success.
The year 2024 was marked by multiple achievements and key
events for Valmet. One of the highlights was the successful
launch of Valmet DNAe, our next-generation industrial
automation system. With many years of research and
development work behind it, Valmet DNAe is an important
step in our strategy of growing the automation business further
across a wide base of process industries globally. In Services, we
continued to provide unique value to customers and service the
growing global installed base.
We also secured a landmark project to supply the world’s
largest single-phase pulp mill, valued at over a billion euros, to
Arauco in Brazil. Personally, it was great to be together with the
team that was able to close the deal and witness the emotions
following the win. This project will also feature full-scope
automation and flow control solutions, serving as a showcase
for Valmet’s sustainable technologies, and reinforcing our
commitment to moving our customers’ performance forward
and environmental stewardship.
Towards the end of the year, we initiated work to renew our
strategy with the aim of defining our future growth areas,
accelerating growth, and simplifying our ways of working. I’m
excited about this and believe the changes we are planning will
enable us to be faster and more focused as an organization.
Our legacy, spanning more than 225 years, provides a solid
foundation for the next chapter in our story.
Valmet’s success is driven by its people. I am committed to
fostering a culture of openness and collaboration in which
Valmeteers can grow and develop further as teams and
individuals. I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to all
my colleagues at Valmet for your hard work, dedication, and
passion. Your support has been invaluable as I have settled into
my role.
I would like to thank our customers and partners for their
cooperation and our shareholders for their continued trust. As
we move forward, I am looking forward to the opportunities
that lie ahead. I am confident that Valmet will continue to
thrive and reach new heights. Let’s continue to build on our
legacy and make the world more sustainable, one innovation
at a time. 