COURAGE TO ADAPT BROUGHT SUCCESS – LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
The year 2024 marked a time of significant change and change for Verkko
­
kauppa.com. While the operating environment during the year was challenging, we showed that we don't just adapt to changing markets ­ we shape them. Clear strategic choices, improving cost efficiency and
enhancing the customer experience delivered results as we moved towards
the end of the year. In 2024, our company generated revenues of EUR 467.8 million and comparable operating result of EUR 1.8 million. During the last quarter, we significantly improved our performance and
laid a strong foundation for the year ahead. During the year, we focused on improving operational efficiency, aligning
costs with the current operating environment and managing cash flow
effectively. In the autumn, we conducted change negotiations aimed at restructuring the organization in line with our long­term strategy and
adjusting number of employees and costs to the current demand situation.
Operational efficiency and strategic choices
The last quarter of the year showed that our strategy is paying off. Sales
of our own brands increased by 20%, the share of fast deliveries grew
and accounted for 16% of online sales, and our gross margin percentage
improved significantly. We managed to balance profitability through
effective inventory management, improved purchasing terms and
an agile pricing strategy. At the same time, our customer promise –
the fastest delivery on the market – was established and customer
satisfaction was at a record high.
Continuous evolution
Continuous development is at the heart of our business. The shift
to online shopping will continue and fast deliveries are expected to
increase. In 2024, we evolved to provide our customers with the most
efficient order­to­delivery process and a superior customer experience.
Not only did we improve the customer experience, but we also
streamlined inventory management and optimized real­time pricing
throughout the year. These strategic moves enabled us to strengthen
our market position and differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
In line with our strategy, we will continue to accelerate the online shift
by making online shopping extremely quick, easy and affordable. We
will also seek growth through new openings, both in terms of product
assortment and new markets, and by growing our services business.
Speed at the heart – our services are growing
During the year, we strongly increased our ability to provide fast
deliveries. We are the leader player in fast deliveries, reaching a record
1.7 million consumers within an hour – superior speed and reliability
are our advantages. As the only player in the industry to offer 24/7
fast delivery, we have brought a new era of speed, convenience and
accessibility to our customers in the retail sector. The success of our fast
delivery service confirms our position as the preferred place for Finns to
shop for the products we offer, regardless of the time of day or place.
We continued our commitment to promote responsible trade in
line with our sustainability programme. During the year, we also
finalized our Sustainability Program. Going forward, we will focus
on building circular future while ensuring responsible operations and
supply chains.
We also invested in improving customer service. We used
artificial intelligence to support customer service, speeding up
response times and enabling a more personalized service. During the
year, we invested in better product discoverability and presentation of
product availability in the online store.
2025 brings growth and new opportunities
The future looks brighter. We expect our revenue and
comparable operating profit to increase in the coming year. The
economic and consumer behavior trends remain uncertain and we
expect the overall market demand to remain cautious in the first half
of the year due to the low consumer confidence. In the second
half of the year, we expect a slow recovery in private
consumption as purchasing power strengthens. Purchasing power
will be supported by rising income levels, low inflation and
lower interest rates. In 2025, we will focus on new growth areas and
developing the online shopping experience. We will also focus on
developing our delivery network and increasing delivery speed to
deliver on our promise of the fastest delivery in the market. We
are leveraging analytics and personalization to provide our
customers with more relevant product recommendations and
promotions.
Nowhere else is there a combination of speed, service, and
convenience comparable to that which has become the hallmark of
Verkkokauppa.com. Our fast delivery, frictionless service and
customer­centric approach show that we don't just react to change ­
we shape the market.
Verkkokauppa.com employees – the enablers of growth
I would like to express my deepest gratitude to each and every one
of our employees. Their uncompromising dedication, hard work and
passion are what make our success possible. Without them, we would
not be here.
As we look to the future, our mission is clear: to continue to redefine
retail, strengthen our customers' trust and build sustainable growth.
Our strength lies in our community, openness and professionalism.
These make each of us proud of what we do – every day, for
every customer. 