Profitability improved, and revenue increased
in 2024
“Our operating profit (EBIT) for the year 2024 was EUR
5.7 million (EUR 4.2 million), representing a 37.9% increase compared to the previous period, and 6.3% (5.5%)
of revenue. Our revenue for the financial year was EUR
91.6 million (EUR 75.4 million), an increase of 21.6%
compared to the previous period. Both operating profit and revenue were at their highest levels in our history.
During 2024, the weaker market conditions in the industrial
sector compared to the previous year were reflected in slower decision-making and had some impact on the revenue of our maintenance business. During the financial year,
our maintenance business was strengthened by the latest
acquisitions that are important to us. Thanks to the acquisition of Viafin Wind Service, we entered a new and rapidly
growing wind power maintenance market, and through Viafin OT Service, we strengthened our mechanical maintenance services in the Oulu and Meri-Lappi regions. The financial impact of Viafin OT Service was fully reflected in Viafin
Service’s results from the second quarter of 2024 onwards.
We are very satisfied with the acquisitions we made and
how the integrations were carried out according to plan.
Our project business improved as expected compared to
the previous period, although the volume of investments in
the green transition was smaller than we had anticipated.
Of our revenue, EUR 75.7 million (EUR 69.5 million), or 83%
(92%), came from maintenance business, and EUR 15.9 million
(EUR 5.9 million), or 17% (8%), came from project business.
The company’s cash flow from operations before financing and
taxes was EUR 4.5 million (EUR 6.6 million). Our cash reserves
at the end of the financial year were EUR 10.1 million (EUR
17.2 million), and the cash conversion was 60.5% (122.6%).
Earnings per share (EPS) for the financial year increased to EUR
1.26 from EUR 0.98 in the previous year. The company’s Board
of Directors proposes a dividend of EUR 0.65 (EUR 0.55) per share for the financial year. Throughout our entire history on the
stock exchange, we have been able to increase the amount of
dividend distributed annually, and one of the goals of our strategy is to continue to distribute growing dividends every year.
We believe that the market conditions in early 2025 will remain unstable due to the uncertainty related to overall economic development. We have a strong position as an industrial pipeline project contractor and as an expert in gas
and hydrogen technology, which provides us with good opportunities to benefit from upcoming investments. In our
view, investments in the green transition and related maintenance needs will increase in the coming years, although
perhaps more slowly than we had previously estimated.
In maintenance business, we are now able to serve customers
on a broader front due to our expanded service offering and
strengthened position. The competition in the project market has intensified significantly over the last few years. We
have continued the selective approach we have taken in previous years regarding projects. We do not expect any changes in the competitive landscape during the current year.
Our strategy period 2023–2025 has progressed almost as planned. During this strategy period, we have focused particularly
on improving the profitability of our maintenance business,
as well as expanding our service capabilities and service offering. Our geographical coverage is also broader than before.
We will continue to focus on improving profitability, growing
our customer base, and making acquisitions. Additionally,
we will focus on improving cash flow, with the strategic target of achieving a cash conversion rate of over 100% annually.
As a result of the acquisitions, our personnel grew from approximately 500 professionals the previous year to over
600 professionals. We still see good opportunities for acquisitions in Finland that suit our strategy, and we will continue to systematically evaluate acquisition targets that
create owner value. There is also room for organic geographical growth, and we will continue investing in ensuring
that we remain a local, entrepreneurial, customer-oriented, and cost-effective service partner in the markets.
I would like to thank our customers, partners,
and all our employees for the 2024 financial year.
We estimate that our revenue for the 2025 financial year will
be EUR 90–100 million, and our operating profit (EBIT) for the
year will be EUR 5.8–7.4 million.”