A look back at the past
year – a year with somewhat weaker demand
Earnings for the financial year 2024 were in line with
the forecast communicated to the market after the
third quarter last year but weaker than for 2023, a
record year. Income before taxes was EUR 19.8 M.
Although earnings did not reach last year’s figure,
the earnings level is far better than it was before the
COVID pandemic.
Operations have continued to be dominated by
consumer cautiousness in our service area. The
weak Swedish krona has continued to weigh down
purchasing power for the Swedish market. The
geopolitical situation, with war in our region, has not
significantly affected people’s propensity to travel in
our main markets but has contributed to continual
uncertainty about energy prices.
During the fourth quarter of 2024, active measures
were taken to further adjust costs to the sluggish
market conditions seen during the autumn. This
helped to keep results for the quarter in line with
our forecast.
Passenger volumes for 2024 were relatively stable.
We are pleased to note that cargo volumes for the
year reached record levels. Our capacity on the
Helsinki-Mariehamn-Stockholm route more than
doubled when Viking Cinderella was launched in
service, and as a result our market share on that
route rose to a healthy 43 per cent. On the TurkuMariehamn/Långnäs-Stockholm route, we have
established a strong market position with a share
of more than 70 per cent. Before Viking Cinderella
returned to service on the Helsinki–MariehamnStockholm route, the vessel was reflagged
and placed in the Finnish Register of Ships.
Consequently, all five of our wholly-owned vessels
sail under a Finnish flag. Prioritizing domestic goods
and services is one of our core values, and the fact
that our entire fleet now sails under a Finnish flag is
concrete proof of this. In a time of increased turmoil
in the world, preparedness and security have
become increasingly important issues in society.
The launch in service of Gotland Alandia Cruises AB
during the spring of 2024 entailed additional one-off
costs, while capacity utilization on the vessel Birka
Gotland during the period until June did not meet
our expectations. Utilization improved during the
summer.
In 2024, our traffic was covered by the EU Emissions
Trading System. This imposed a cost that we have
striven to partly offset through continued work
to improve energy efficiency. Unfortunately,
fossil-free fuels in the quantity and at a price
that are economically viable do not exist today.
Implementation of a timebound island exemption
from the Emissions Trading System for traffic
between Finland and Åland was thus well justified
since the transition to fossil-free fuels is not
governed by the cost of emission allowances but
by access to alternative fossil-free fuels. We do not
intend to lower our ambitions to reduce emissions
from our traffic but will instead continue our work
to make the transition to fossil-free fuels and
increase fuel efficiency.
During the year, we celebrated the 50th anniversary
of our maritime transport on the Helsinki–
Stockholm route, a route that has served 45 million
passengers since it was launched. During the
autumn, Viking Line reached another impressive
milestone. Since the company launched service,
a quarter of a billion people have sailed on our
vessels, a fine achievement that has required more
than 60 years of operations.
Viking Line continues its commitment to
sustainability issues. In early 2024, green sea
conferences were launched on our Turku vessels,
which led to a reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions from conference trips of about 90 per
cent. During the spring of 2025, this sustainable
meeting solution will be offered on all routes
and vessels. The projects for green sea corridors
between Turku and Stockholm and between
Helsinki and Tallinn have also continued to move
forward. For more than a year, Viking Line’s
passengers on the Turku–Stockholm route have
been able to purchase biogas to offset the amount
of fuel used for their trip, which reduces emissions
from passengers’ own travel by up to 90 per cent.
The year was also characterized by high levels for
customer service and the customer experience. This
good performance is to a large extent a result of the
work of our engaged staff, and I would thus like to
extend a big thank you to all of our employees for
their excellent work, which has contributed to our
earnings. I would also like to give my warm thanks
to our customers and partners for the faith they
have shown in us and for their good cooperation.