“The last quarter of 2024 was subdued for Vincit, both in terms of
revenue and protability development, similar to the entire scal year.
Sales cycles have remained long throughout the year as customers
carefully consider initiating new projects, even relatively small ones.
The market environment, especially for custom software development,
was challenging throughout the year.
In the Nordics, demand for our service oering was highest for data
and AI solutions, as well as SAP S/4HANA transformation projects.
Among customer deliveries in Finland, I would particularly like to
highlight the Edilex AI tool, developed by Vincit and Edilex, which is
designed for legal information retrieval. The tool is currently being
tested by law rms, and the commercial version will be released
during 2025. After the review period, we also announced an extensive
cooperation agreement with Schetelig Group, a wholesaler catering
to garden professionals. We are helping the Group’s companies
modernize their core business processes with a cloud-based,
comprehensive SAP solution. These projects are examples of our
strategic goal to apply our expertise more deeply to our customers’
business-critical challenges.
In the United States, the operating environment has remained
challenging for Vincit, and the past quarter was again unprotable.
We continue to work on building a new market position as a digital
commerce partner and adjusting the cost base to the current size of
the US business. We are focused on winning new customers in the
retail, media, and manufacturing industries by leveraging our delivery
capabilities from Europe.
During the year, we have signicantly streamlined our cost structure
and increased cost flexibility in our operations. Thanks to cost-cutting
measures related to oce premises and other operating costs, we
achieved annual savings of EUR 2 million. In addition, we concluded
change negotiations in November concerning temporary layos in
Finland. The layos apply to employees in billable roles whose
customer invoicing has been low for an extended period. We will
continue to evaluate the necessary measures and need for temporary
layos until the end of June 2025. At the end of the year, Vincit had 30
employees on temporary layo in Finland and the US.
In December, we announced that we had become part of a
professional cyberattack. The multi-stage attack originated from
stolen VPN credentials from a Vincit employee's personal computer,
which allowed the criminals to penetrate a closed network of a Vincit
customer. The stolen credentials did not directly allow access to customer systems or personal data managed by customers, but the
criminals were able to exploit vulnerabilities independent of Vincit in
the next stage of the attack. We take this series of events extremely
seriously and have conducted a thorough investigation in cooperation
with cybersecurity professionals and authorities. We will accelerate
the schedule of ongoing cybersecurity projects and further increase
investments in cybersecurity development and risk management
together with our customers. The costs related to the cybersecurity
attack burdened the result of the nal quarter.
The year 2024 ended with the claried strategy and updated nancial
targets published in December. Vincit aims to be the most trusted
digital business partner for its customers, combining leading
technology platforms and tailored solutions. The results of a customer
satisfaction survey conducted in December (NPS 58) provide a good
starting point for our goal. As a result of the strategy work, we started
2025 with a new organizational structure, which strengthens the
independence of our business areas. This enables clearer prot
responsibility, closer customer collaboration and brings experts closer
to the business. Although the operating environment remains
challenging at the turn of the year, we are entering the new year
committed to earning our customers' trust every single day.”