In 2024, we built
a foundation for
future growth
2024 was a historically weak year for the automotive sector. The number of
first registrations of new cars fell far short of the levels of recent decades.
Economic uncertainty and low consumer confidence strengthened the
negative impacts. Despite the headwinds, we systematically continued to
implement our growth strategy. During 2024, we completed five corporate and business
transactions, including the largest corporate transaction
in our history: the sale of Wetteri Power Oy to the Swedish
company Persson Invest Ab. The transaction significantly
strengthens Wetteri’s balance sheet, as well as its ability to
execute strategic acquisitions, and thus provides excellent
support for the company’s growth strategy. The strategic
business arrangements carried out over the last year will
strengthen our position in the automotive market, which
is undergoing major changes, and will increase our market
share in the automotive market overall.
The turbulence in the operating environment was reflected
in our financial performance. In the early part of the
year, manufacturers repriced electric cars, which had an
impact on the pricing of stock and demonstration cars.
At the same time, consumer demand was low. Adjusted
EBITDA fell short of last year’s level and was EUR 20.7
million. The Group’s revenue increased by 16% from
the previous year as a result of corporate transactions,
amounting to EUR 514.5 million. The adjusted operating
profit was EUR 5.1 million. Of Wetteri’s business segments,
the Passenger Cars segment’s revenue rose to EUR 327.8 million, and its adjusted operating profit showed a loss of
EUR 5.6 million. The invoiced sales of used cars increased
by 58% in terms of the number of cars. The order backlog
of new passenger cars at the end of the year was EUR
36.6 million. The Heavy Equipment segment’s revenue
increased by 23% year-on-year. Its adjusted operating profit
decreased by 17% and was EUR 3.0 million. The adjusted
operating profit of Maintenance Services was EUR 6.9
million, with an increase of 21% from the previous year.
In 2024, we started an efficiency programme to improve
profitability and reduce costs. In 2025, we will continue
the efficiency measures as part of continuous business
development. At the turn of December and January, we
paid off EUR 6.9 million in interest-bearing bank loans and
EUR 8 million in interest-bearing overdraft facilities. With
these actions, we reduced our debt financing. The majority
of Wetteri’s interest-bearing liabilities on its balance sheet
are related to the consignment stock financing of used
cars, the leasing financing of demonstration cars, and lease
liabilities related to the premises and equipment rented by
the company. Consignment stock financing is a risk-free
form of financing for the dealer, in which the car under
financing can be returned to the financing company if
desired.
The automotive industry is undergoing a historical transformation, and operations will focus on a few big players.
We see that now is the right time to invest in the growth
of the passenger car business. We will continue to develop
the heavy equipment business, for which we have excellent
prerequisites thanks to the Wetteri Power transaction. We
have a strong position in the used commercial truck trade.
Truck maintenance will continue with five brands.
According to the automotive forecasting group, the
market’s lowest point has been reached. The growth
outlook for the automotive sector promises a 10% growth
rate for the current year. In February 2025, customer
orders for passenger cars increased cumulatively by 17%
compared with the previous year. As a result of a slower
decrease in the number of older cars, the average age of the
passenger car fleet increased to 13.6 years. In the previous
year, the average age of passenger cars was 13.2 years. The
increase in the average age has been faster than in previous
years, as the number of registrations of new cars has fallen
significantly short of the long-term average. This creates
positive pressure for the car trade to pick up. Cheaper
electric car models will also be introduced, meaning that
the average price of new cars will decrease, and this will
lower the threshold for consumer customers to buy a
new car.
In 2025, we will continue our efforts to realise the synergy
benefits of acquisitions and improve profitability. We
will also continue to expand our brand representation
to new locations, thereby strengthening our position to
negotiate other new brand representation at growing
locations. An example is the Automotive Hedin Kia and Mitsubishi acquisition announced in Lahti in February,
which brings our potential market share of the Kia and
Mitsubishi representation in Finland to around 20%. With
these arrangements, we have built a foundation for future
growth.
Our strategic target is to achieve at least 15% of the national
market potential for each brand we represent. We will
also continue to identify new business and corporate
arrangements that support our growth strategy. Finally, I
would like to thank Wetteri’s personnel and customers and
all our partners for the last year and wish you every success
in 2025.
