Digital services are an integral part of society – they are
expected to work seamlessly without any disruptions.
Cyber security, together with the institutions offering
physical security, has become a pillar of a secure
society. The fast-evolving industrial-scale cybercrime
means cyber security is a must for every company,
regardless of their size. For the past year, WithSecure
has been focusing its strategy on solving the cyber
security challenges of mid-market companies. Our
aim is to offer our customers a selection of software
and services that provide cyber resilience and trust
in digital society, efficiently and in compliance with
regulation. In the changing geopolitical environment,
we take pride in providing a European alternative for
cyber security, and uncompromising reliability in the
trust business. 
With the increasing complexity of cyber security risks,
an effective protection of our customers is always
a result of collaboration between WithSecure, our
partners and end-customers. We are in a continuous
dialogue to ensure that our products meet both the
cyber security needs of the end-customers and create
meaningful portfolio items for the partners who are
selling them as part of their own offering.
In 2024, the economic growth in the European
markets was modest and continued to be impacted
by the geopolitical uncertainties. On the other
hand, previously surging inflation subsided, and the
unemployment rates remained at low levels. Positive
development in the markets outside Europe offset
some of the impacts, but WithSecure’s main markets
are mostly located in Europe. Despite the economic
headwinds, WithSecure’s revenue of Continuing
operations grew by 6% in 2024, and the company was
adjusted EBITDA profitable for the past financial year.
We expanded the offering by an important product
in 2024: WithSecure Exposure Management was
launched in May, and it became generally available
in the third quarter. It provides continuous scanning
of the customer’s attack surface, with estimated
impacts of the attack paths and recommendations
for remediations generated by AI. Customer interest
on Exposure Management has been high, and we
expect it to be a growing product in the next few
years. We also added Identity security to our product
portfolio and introduced the AI assistant Luminen,
which has been providing its advice to all our Elements
customers since September 2024.
Elements Cloud revenue grew by 9.4% in 2024 and
was EUR 83.3 million (EUR 76.1 million). Annual
Recurring Revenue (ARR) growth in the same period
was 6.2%. Total Elements Company segment revenue
grew by 4.5% in 2024 and was EUR 105.7 million
(EUR 101.1 million). 
Cloud Protection for Salesforce (CPSF) is a software
product ensuring scanning of external content for
potential malware, before it is loaded to Salesforce.
The CPSF team’s continuous, systematic efforts to
improve sales execution are providing strong results.
The ARR growth of the business was 52% from the
previous year-end. The growth is driven by both new
customers – we were glad to welcome many new
international enterprise customers in the past year –
and expansions to existing customers. We continue
to develop the CPSF as an independent business
inside WithSecure, while keeping the strategic review
options open.  
On 23 January 2025, WithSecure signed an
agreement intending to divest the Cyber security
consulting business. Consulting is reported as part
of the Discontinued operations result in the 2024
financials. WithSecure consultants are offering worldclass offensive security services to some of the most
demanding customers in the world. We are very
happy to have a new owner who will continue to
develop the business as an independent company.
The divestment is expected to close during the second
quarter of 2025. 
For the past two years, WithSecure has been focusing
on profitable growth. The full company adjusted
EBITDA (Continuing and Discontinued operations
total) of 2024 was EUR 3.1 million (EUR -16.1 million).
Full-year operative cash flow before financial items
and taxes was EUR 2.1 million. We are pleased to report the improvement in profitability, demonstrating
that the cost structure has been adjusted to a level that
can sustain some volatility of revenue.
WithSecure, as a company, went through many
changes in 2024. We had a sudden change of CEO
in April, when the previous CEO Juhani Hintikka
stepped down from his position. I was first appointed
as interim CEO, and on 1 July 2024 as the CEO of
WithSecure. I have had the pleasure of looking at the
company from a new perspective, and appreciate the
diversity, capabilities and excellence of our teams and
partners. In May, we arranged our third SPHERE event
for customers and partners. The event was marked
by launches of our new products, but also by joyful
meetings and inspirational speakers – even a detective
story on cyber security was published at SPHERE. In
October, our Helsinki team moved to our new Wood
City headquarters that provide an environmentally
sustainable and inspiring environment for working. 
At the closing of my first financial year as the
WithSecure CEO, I would like to thank our personnel
for their great work and change resilience. I also
want to thank the WithSecure partners, customers,
shareholders, and other stakeholders for your
collaboration. We are looking forward to a great
continued partnership with you in 2025.