In 2024, Wärtsilä made strong progress towards our targets
and we developed positively in many ways. We achieved
all-time highs in order intake, absolute operating income,
and cash flow from operating activities. During the year we
significantly enhanced the profitability of all businesses, and
our order book is at a record level.
We will gain further momentum going forward from the
enhanced quality of our order book and a higher proportion of
equipment orders to turnkey projects. We will also benefit from
the positive impacts of structural changes and operational
improvements. Our strategy, the Wärtsilä Way, is yielding
results and we have a clear path to our 12% operating margin
target over the coming few years.
We are strengthening Wärtsilä by focusing on our profitable
core businesses, which are well-placed to capture the many
opportunities offered by the decarbonisation transformation.
In the last year we reinforced our position as a leader in
innovation with a number of world firsts, which are landmarks
on the journey to net zero. These included our launch of the
first large-scale, 100% hydrogen-ready engine power plant
concept. We also announced a deal to supply our pioneering
engine technology for what is due to become the world’s
first ammonia-fuelled in-service supply vessel. Services made
up 53% of our sales and continue to be a major driver for
customer satisfaction and profitable growth. We saw good
success in moving our customers up the service value ladder,
and the renewal rate of our service agreements is more than
90%, which is a proof point of the value that our lifecycle
agreements are creating for customers. Wärtsilä is very well positioned for the decarbonisation
transformation with the solutions that we can offer today and the
technology and services that we are developing for the future. We
are already the market leader in some of the major technologies
that are needed for a sustainable future.
Increasing focus on decarbonisation
The market environment for our businesses remained relatively
stable throughout 2024. However, as the year progressed,
geopolitical tensions clearly increased, introducing uncertainty
to the macroeconomic outlook due to heightened risks of
protectionism and trade policy uncertainty. Despite these
challenges, our customers in the marine and energy industries
remained increasingly focused on decarbonisation.
On the marine side, a major driver of decarbonisation has been the
IMO’s tightening in 2023 of targets to reduce greenhouse gases
(GHG) from ships to net zero by or around 2050. Meanwhile, at the
start of 2024 marine emissions from large vessels were brought
under the scope of the European Union’s carbon trading system.
In the marine market, the regulatory drive towards
decarbonisation, along with the growth in global trade volumes
and a shift in trade flows resulted in a significant boost to
demand for ship capacity in 2024, supporting the demand for
both newbuilds and service. The market sentiment was positive,
with robust momentum in key customer segments for new
vessels, while decarbonisation-related retrofits and longer trade
routes supported the demand for services. Investments in new
ships were clearly above the levels seen in 2023, and we saw a
healthy pickup in interest towards alternative fuels, which now
accounted for 49% of the capacity of contracted vessels.
In the energy market, the transition towards renewables
continued to advance. Wind and solar are expected to post
record installations in 2024 and 2025, driven not only by climate
concerns but also by affordability. The demand for balancing
technologies is closely linked to the increasing share of
intermittent renewables in the energy system. Renewable-led power systems require flexibility in various forms: balancing
power plants, alongside battery energy storage, are critical to
reaching global climate goals. In 2024 both thermal balancing
and battery energy storage experienced their highest levels of
market activity to date.
Our expert modelling of power systems supports our customers
in finding optimal paths to a decarbonised energy future. In
December we released our global power modelling report
Crossroads to Net Zero, which shows that the effectiveness of
renewables can be maximised if supported by flexible power
plants, with potential cost savings of EUR 65 trillion worldwide by
2050 for energy providers.
Creating customer value in Marine and Energy
Wärtsilä has the industry’s most comprehensive offering
for decarbonisation, focusing on fuel flexibility, efficiency
optimisation, emission-abatement technologies and digital
services. 2050 is the lifespan of a single vessel or power plant
away, while technology decisions for new vessels are being made
now.
In 2024, Wärtsilä’s R&D expenditure again represented around
4.6% of net sales. We are well on track towards our target to
provide a product portfolio ready for zero-carbon fuels by 2030.
In addition to LNG and methanol, ammonia has emerged as a
promising alternative fuel as the shipping industry looks for more
sustainable options. In August, Wärtsilä announced a landmark
deal with Eidesvik to supply the equipment for the conversion
of an offshore platform supply vessel to operate with ammonia
fuel. The vessel, ‘Viking Energy’, is set to become the world's first
ammonia-fuelled in-service ship in 2026.
Wärtsilä is a market leader in ship electrification, hybrid solutions,
and digital offerings related to marine optimisation. In May, we
announced that we will supply the electrical systems needed to
convert two Scandlines ferries to a plug-in hybrid solution, the
largest conversion project of its kind worldwide.
In a first for the marine industry, we announced in September
a deal to convert one engine on six of Chevron’s LNG carriers
from dual-fuel (DF) to spark gas (SG) operation. The conversions
are aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by lowering
methane slip. After a successful pilot in 2024, we are preparing
for a commercial release of carbon capture and storage (CCS)
in 2025. Our CCS-ready scrubbers are already available today.
Total investments in Marine retrofits, including CCS solutions, are
estimated to be EUR 15–20 billion over the next decade.
In the energy industry, the intermittency of renewables is
driving an increasing need for balancing power, and the gridbalancing capabilities of Wärtsilä’s engines ensure that customers
can maintain a consistent and reliable energy supply while
progressing towards decarbonisation. The growth in renewable
energy deployments has resulted in improved demand for engine power plants compared to 2023, with good activity especially in
the US. In September, we announced a contract to deliver four
Wärtsilä 50SG engines to a new power plant for the Kentucky
Municipal Energy Agency (KYMEA).
We also announced a deal to supply Aqualectra, the governmentowned utilities company of the Caribbean Island of Curaҫao, with
a 25 MW / 25 MWh Battery Energy Storage System and a new
38 MW power plant, representing an important step towards a
sustainable energy future for the island.
It is crucial for our customers that the solutions we sell are fuelflexible, ready to run on sustainable fuels once they become
readily available. In June, Wärtsilä reached a significant milestone
by launching the world’s first large-scale 100% hydrogen-ready
engine power plant concept. This solution can use natural gas
today to provide flexibility and balancing, and can be converted to
run on hydrogen, thereby future-proofing the journey to net zero.
In May, we signed a cooperation agreement to deliver on-site
power generation for AVK, the largest and fastest-growing
supplier of power solutions for data centres in Europe. The
segment has the potential to become an exciting opportunity in
future as the rapid growth of artificial intelligence (AI) continues
to have a sizeable impact on global electricity demand.
Significant services growth opportunities
Wärtsilä’s industry-leading service network is a key enabler for
maximum uptime, reliability, and total lifecycle solutions, all of
which ensure customer success. Wärtsilä has significant growth
opportunities at all steps of the service value ladder.
In transactional services, we support our customers by leveraging
digital solutions for customer intelligence and automated lead
management. By combining AI and data analytics with our
product knowhow, we can support customers in improving
performance while also improving our own service operations.
Among our 2024 highlights was the signing of a five-year lifecycle
agreement with Royal Caribbean Group covering 37 cruise ships.
The industry-leading performance-based model means that gains
resulting from best operation and maintenance practices will be
shared between Royal Caribbean Group and Wärtsilä. Meanwhile
Wärtsilä renewed and expanded our existing operations and
maintenance (O&M) agreement with QIT Madagascar Minerals
S.A to include a decarbonisation agreement. This groundbreaking
offering in the energy sector allows for the optimisation of all
assets in the microgrid, bringing notable cost savings alongside
emissions reductions.
Clear progress towards our financial targets
We made clear progress towards our financial targets of 5%
organic growth annually and a 12% operating margin. In
2024, Wärtsilä’s order intake grew organically by 17%. Service
order intake increased, primarily driven by growth in Marine.
Equipment order intake increased, supported by higher activity
in all businesses. Net sales increased organically by 9%, with
clear growth in both service and equipment in all businesses. The
comparable operating result increased by 39% to EUR 694 million,
which represents 10.8% of net sales. Comparable operating result
increased in all businesses. Gearing amounted to -0.31, against
our target of <0.50. Cash flow from operating activities ended
strong and totalled EUR 1,208 million in 2024, supported by a
better result and improved working capital.
With the strategy that we have in place, and the positive
development that we are seeing in service growth and the
decarbonisation transformation, we consider our operating
margin target achievable over a few years.
Actively managing our business portfolio is key to our goal of
becoming a more focused and profitable company. In December,
we announced the agreement to divest our Automation,
Navigation and Control System (ANCS) business. Subject to
approvals, the transaction is expected to be completed in the
second quarter of 2025. The strategic review of Energy Storage
& Optimisation, announced in October 2023, is still ongoing. All
potential alternatives are being considered in order to accelerate
its profitable growth in a way that benefits customers and
employees and creates value for Wärtsilä shareholders. We have
not set a timetable for the completion of the strategic review, as
we want to ensure a thorough evaluation. We continue to develop
and invest in the Energy Storage & Optimisation business during
the strategic review, and we remain fully committed to serving
our customers.
In 2024, as part of our continuous focus on competitiveness and
operational efficiency, we concluded the transfer of Wärtsilä’s
manufacturing site in Trieste, Italy, including 255 employees, to
shipping company MSC. This is in line with our plan, announced
in July 2022, to centralise our European 4-stroke engine
manufacturing in Vaasa, Finland. Trieste remains an important
site for Wärtsilä with R&D, sales and other expert teams serving
our customers in Italy and worldwide. Recognition as a sustainability leader
Wärtsilä’s target position of shaping the decarbonisation of
marine and energy is supported by our ‘Set for 30’ commitment.
As highlighted, we took important steps in 2024 towards our
target to provide a product portfolio ready for zero-carbon fuels
by 2030. We are also committed to becoming carbon neutral in
our own operations by the same year. In 2024, Wärtsilä included
a new target under its Set for 30 programme, namely that our
suppliers' GHG emissions should be reduced by 25% by 2030
compared to the 2024 baseline. Baseline data is being collected
and the target assessment methodology is under development.
Thanks to concrete steps to minimise our environmental
footprint, our GHG emissions decreased by 50% (50,163 tCO2
e)
compared to the baseline, which is aligned with our carbon
neutrality pathway. Our efforts in 2024 focused on low and
medium-cost measures, such as continuing to purchase green
electricity, with over 60% of our total electricity consumption in
2024 coming from renewable sources. We also took low-emission
company vehicles into use and actively managed our R&D and
factory engine testing. We also made use of self-generated
energy, with 2,200 MWh of power produced from solar panels
installed at our sites in 2024.
We are proud that this year we were ranked among the most
sustainable companies worldwide and in Europe by the Financial
Times and TIME magazine. In December, Wärtsilä was included as
an index component of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe
for the ninth consecutive year.
The health and safety of our personnel is key to our success
at Wärtsilä and we are committed to our long-term goal of
achieving zero lost-time injuries. In 2024, we made good
progress, with reductions in the total recordable injury
frequency (TRIF) from 2.62 down to 2.20. We strengthened our
safety culture with a series of ‘Zero Mindset’ initiatives, training
sessions and tools, while the theme of October’s Safety Day
was ‘Mind Your Head’, focusing on of both physical and mental
wellbeing.
Our diverse representation of nationalities and cultures
strengthens our competitive edge and our innovation, thanks to
a wider variety of perspectives. Currently, our 18,300 employees
represent approximately 128 nationalities in 77 countries.
In 2024, we carried out our two-yearly employee engagement
survey, MyVoice. Our response rate of 88% scores very favourably
against international benchmarks, and the results indicate
that our employees take great pride in working for a company
committed to making a positive impact on the world. 90% stated
their work at Wärtsilä meets or exceeds their expectations, 88%
feel respected at work, and nearly as many feel they can bring
their authentic selves to the workplace. These outcomes show
we are making good progress in having the right professionals
with the right competencies and motivation, and in establishing
Wärtsilä as an employer of choice with a strong culture.
We are on a journey to develop Wärtsilä Continuous
Improvement (WCI) as an important driver of customer focus
and competitiveness. In 2024, we set up the governance for the
framework and began promoting learning and experimentation
across the organisation. Numerous continuous improvement
initiatives are already in progress, from automating invoicing
documentation to streamlining processes within teams.
Outcomes have included better customer service, reduced errors,
and significantly lower claim resolution times.
In 2024, we celebrated Wärtsilä’s 190-year anniversary. From
our humble beginnings as a village sawmill in eastern Finland,
we are now making an important contribution to the world’s
decarbonisation transition. During these two centuries, our
company has repeatedly transformed itself and shaped the
industries we have operated in, underpinned at all times by two
elements: our focus on innovation and our commitment to our
customers. Our progress today shows that these principles are
still very much thriving.
Wärtsilä can make a difference to the world, and we can secure our
financial performance and deliver attractive long-term shareholder
value. I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to our customers
and partners, our engaged and committed Wärtsilä team, and
our shareholders for your trust in Wärtsilä’s future success. I look
forward to continuing on this exciting journey together.

