We improved our financial position in a challenging
market environment 
Our adjusted operating profit for 2024 was EUR 32 million, and
operating profit for the year weakened to EUR -55 million.
Despite our achievements last year, we cannot be satisfied that
the result for the full year remained negative. During the year,
we continued measures to execute our transformation program
including closing down our operations in Sweden and Norway,
which burdened our operating profit heavily. However, these
measures have been critical in building YIT’s long-term
competitiveness.
In 2024, the Finnish residential construction market remained
weak as a result of low consumer confidence. Despite this, our
consumer sales in Finland increased by more than 40% during
the year and we sold nearly 600 consumer apartments in
Finland. The stock of unsold completed apartments continues
to decline and is expected to reach normal levels during 2025.
Towards the end of the year, we started four new projects in
selected cities in Finland, supported by regional market
demand. However, overall low production volumes and the low
number of apartment completions will limit the Residential
Finland segment's capability to generate profit in 2025.
Our residential business operations in the Baltic and CEE
countries continued on a solid track in 2024. Both our
apartment sales and revenue grew substantially throughout the
year as market conditions improved. We have increased
production, and apartment starts increased altogether by over
50% during the year. This forms a solid foundation for achieving
our strategic objectives in the coming years.
In the infrastructure business, key indicators showed positive
trends in 2024. Over the year, the Finnish operations increased
their revenue, adjusted operating profit and order book, along
with a reduction in capital employed to negative, in alignment
with the strategic goals. With a strong order book, the
Infrastructure segment begins 2025 from a solid position. 
The Building Construction segment is renewing its business
model and refocusing on selected customer segments. The
segment's operational performance improved in 2024, while
balance sheet items burdened the profitability. The segment's
operational performance is expected to continue improving.
Supported by the transformation
program towards a new strategy
period
Our team has rigorously executed the transformation program
that was launched two years ago and developed operations on
many fronts. We reached the program goals ahead of time. We
streamlined our cost structure, restructured our funding and
improved our financial position.  The financing arrangement we implemented in March 2024
gave us room to maneuver and ensured our ability to react
especially to changes in the Finnish housing market. The net
debt decreased by EUR 115 million compared to the end of the
previous year. However, we still have work to do to lighten the
balance sheet in the coming years and we will continue to
release capital according to the market situation.
In November, we presented our new strategy for 2025–2029.
With the new strategy, our key target is to strengthen YIT's
resilience, so that we can succeed in all market situations. We
have worked hard to ensure that YIT has excellent capabilities
to succeed when the Finnish housing market begins to turn.
Equally, we develop our operations so that we can succeed
even when we inevitably encounter new cycles in our different
countries of operation.
Customer at the heart of strategy
Megatrends support YIT's business in many ways. Urbanization
and demographic changes increase the demand for sustainable
and vibrant living environments. Climate change and the energy
transition place demands on sustainable construction and green
infrastructure in Europe. Digitalization and artificial intelligence
require investments in data centers, and global security issues
have emerged in all of our countries of operation. We are
developing our capabilities to better support our customers'
business.
This situation opens up opportunities for all construction
companies. In order to differentiate ourselves from our
competitors and be able to implement new projects, we need to
respond better to customer needs. We have made good
progress in this area as our customer satisfaction improved
clearly in 2024 with our NPS increasing from 52 to 57.We are
committed to further improving the customer experience by
continuously listening to our customers' needs. Our goal is to
be involved in projects in as early phase as possible, so that we
can ensure the best way to implement it cost-effectively and in a
way that is optimal for the customer's business. Committed and motivated team is our company's most
important asset. Our employee satisfaction, measured by
eNPS, improved from 20 to 30 compared to previous year. YIT
remained the number one employer for students and
professionals in the construction industry in Finland. We are
building our success on our versatile and skilled professionals.
We will invest in developing our leaders’ and employees’
capabilities.
We are committed to building a better future and sustainable
cities for urban residents. YIT was the first Finnish construction
company to set science-based targets for emission reductions,
and our goal is to continue being a leader in construction
industry sustainability. This is also what our customers expect
from us.
We have set an ambitious safety target for the strategy period.
We aim to halve the number of accidents relative to working
hours and achieve a combined lost time injury frequency (cLTIF)
of less than 5. We are committed to the well-being and safety of
our employees and partners. It is of utmost importance that
each of us can work in safe conditions.
Looking ahead
We remain realistic about Finnish residential market recovery.
Market indicators are showing more positive trends, and we
have initiated new residential projects to meet the demand in
selected cities. Nonetheless, there are no definitive signs of a
strong recovery in the Finnish residential construction market in
2025.
I thank our owners, customers, partners and employees for
their trust in YIT. Our vision is to be the expert partner in
developing sustainable homes, spaces and cities – for a good
life. This is what we strive for in our everyday work. 